'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH root_archive 1M "26 Sep 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
root_archive \- manage bootable miniroot archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive \fR pack \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive \fR unpack \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive \fR packmedia \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive \fR unpackmedia \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBroot_archive\fR utility is used to manage bootable miniroot archives and is currently only available on x86 platforms. The utility can pack and unpack boot/root archives in both ufs and hsfs (iso9660) format. It will always generate ufs archives.
.LP
\fBroot_archive\fR also uses the \fBlofi\fR file driver to export a file as a block device (see \fBlofi\fR(7D)) and \fBmount\fR
to mount or unmount file systems and remote resources (see \fBmount\fR(1M)). \fBroot_archive\fR requires the same privileges that are needed to run these commands.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.LP
The \fBroot_archive\fR command has the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpack\fR \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Pack from the image found under the \fIroot\fR directory to the archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBunpack\fR \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unpack from the archive to an unpacked image under the \fIroot\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpackmedia\fR \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pack the solaris image to the \fIroot\fR directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBunpackmedia\fR \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unpack the solaris image from the \fIroot\fR directory.
.RE

.LP
For \fBpackmedia\fR and \fBunpackmedia\fR, other items that do not go into the ramdisk image are copied or uncopied (see \fBcpio\fR(1))
as well. Specifically, this includes all the packaging databases needed for \fBpkgadd\fR and the other packaging utilities to succeed which are not used in the running and hence pruned to conserve memory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUnpacking the Solaris x86 install image
.LP
The following command unpacks the current Solaris image from the \fIroot\fR directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# root_archive unpackmedia \e
/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest /export/Boot
.fi
.in -2

.LP
Where \fB/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest\fR represents a path to a Solaris x86 install image and \fB/export/Boot\fR is a directory that will be purged or created, as necessary.
.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRPacking the Solaris x86 install image
.LP
The following command packs the current Solaris image to the \fIroot\fR directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# root_archive packmedia \e
/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest /export/Boot
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
The command completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
The command exited due to an error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBbootadm\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlofi\fR(7D)
