'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH wrsmconf 1M "25 Jun 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
wrsmconf \- manage WCI RSM controller configurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4u/sbin/wrsmconf\fR create \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsmconf\fR initial \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsmconf\fR remove [\fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsmconf\fR topology [\fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsmconf\fR dump \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBwrsmconf\fR provides a means to create, install, retrieve, and remove configurations for WCI remote shared memory (RSM) controllers.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcreate\fR \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a set of per-node configurations for the specified controller and store them to the file \fIconfig_file\fR. The created file contains a per-node configuration for each node specified in the input for the specified controller. The file has a checksum on it and cannot be modified directly. This file can be used in a \fBwrsmconf initial\fR call on each node to install the node's configuration
into the local driver.
.sp
A list of nodes and WCI devices connected to those nodes is read from standard input. For each connected pair of links, specify the nodename (\fBuname \fR\fB-n\fR), safari port id, and link number on both sides of the connection. The format of the information looks like this: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<nodename>.<wrsm-portid>.<linkno>=<nodename>.<wrsm-portid>.<linkno>
<nodename>.<wrsm-portid>.<linkno>=<nodename>.<wrsm-portid>.<linkno>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This interface is intended for installing configurations for testing (such as for SunVTS). Only direct-connect, non-striped configurations for 1 to 3 nodes can be specified. FM node ids and RSM hardware addresses are assigned to the specified nodes contiguously and in order starting from 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBinitial\fR \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Install the configuration for the local node stored in the file \fIconfig_file\fR into the driver
as the initial configuration for the specified controller. This command fails under the following circumstances:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIcontroller_id\fR is specified and the configuration in the file is not for the specified controller.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the file does not contain a valid configuration for the local node or if the checksum in the file shows it has been modified.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If a configuration has already been installed for the controller. If this happens, use \fBwrsmconf remove\fR to remove the existing configuration.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBremove\fR [ \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable communication through the installed configuration for all controllers or the specified controller and remove the configuration(s) from the driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtopology\fR \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller_id\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For each installed controller (or for the specified controller), print to stdout the set of nodes this controller is configured to reach, including the nodename, FM node id,
and RSM hardware address for each node. The following is example output:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
FM Node ID   Node Name  Controller Instance    Controller HW Addr 
0            hpc00              0                    101
0            hpc00              1                    333
1            hpc01              0                    102
1            hpc01              1                    54
1            hpc01              2                    34
2            hpc03              0                    103
2            hpc03              1                    103
2            hpc03              2                    103
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdump\fR \fB-c\fR \fIcontroller-id\fR \fB-f\fR \fIconfig_file\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fetch the installed configuration for the specified controller from the driver and store it into the file \fIconfig_file\fR along with a checksum to protect the data. This configuration can later be installed with the command \fBwrsmconf\fR \fBinitial\fR. 
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
This command returns 0 on successful completion, and a non-zero value if an error occured.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWwrsm
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkstat\fR(1M), \fBwrsmstat\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
