'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software
.\" License Agreement  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH logger 1B "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
logger \- add entries to the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/logger\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] mm 
    [\fImessage\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlogger\fR utility provides a method for adding one-line entries to the system log file from the command line. One or more \fImessage\fR arguments can be given
on the command line, in which case each is logged immediately. If \fImessage\fR is unspecified, either the file indicated with \fB-f\fR or the standard input is added to the
log. Otherwise, a \fIfilename\fR can be specified, in which case each line in the file is logged. If neither is specified, \fBlogger\fR reads and logs messages on a line-by-line
basis from the standard input.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Log the process \fBID\fR of the \fBlogger\fR process with
each line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Use the contents of \fIfilename\fR as the message to log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Enter the message with the specified \fIpriority\fR. The message priority can be specified
numerically, or as a \fIfacility.level\fR pair. For example, \fB`\fR\fB-p\fR \fBlocal3.info'\fR assigns the message priority to the \fBinfo\fR level in the \fBlocal3\fR facility. The default priority is \fBuser.notice\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Mark each line added to the log with the specified \fItag\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRLogging a message
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlogger System rebooted\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
will log the message `\fBSystem rebooted\fR' to the facility at priority \fBnotice\fR to be treated by \fBsyslogd\fR as other messages to the facility \fBnotice\fR are.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRLogging messages from a file
.LP
The command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlogger \fR\fB-p\fR\fB local0.notice \fR\fB-t\fR\fB HOSTIDM \fR\fB-f\fR\fB /dev/idmc\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
will read from the file \fB/dev/idmc\fR and will log each line in that file as a message with the tag `\fBHOSTIDM\fR' at priority \fBnotice\fR to be treated
by \fBsyslogd\fR as other messages to the facility \fBlocal0\fR are.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWscpu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
