'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH bge 7D "23 Feb 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
bge \- SUNW,bge Gigabit Ethernet driver for Broadcom BCM57xx
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/bge*\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBbge\fR Gigabit Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded, loadable, clonable, GLD-based STREAMS driver supporting the Data Link Provider Interface, \fBdlpi\fR(7P), on Broadcom BCM57xx (BCM5700/5701/5703/5704/5705/5705M/5714/5721/5751/5751M/5782/5788 on x86) Gigabit Ethernet controllers fitted to the system motherboard. With the exception of BCM5700/BCM5701/BCM5704S, these devices incorporate both MAC and PHY functions
and provide three-speed (copper) Ethernet operation on the RJ-45 connectors. (BCM5700/BCM5701/BCM5704S do not have a PHY integrated into the MAC chipset.)
.LP
The \fBbge\fR driver functions include controller initialization, frame transmit and receive, promiscuous and multicast support, and error recovery and reporting.
.LP
The \fBbge\fR driver and hardware support auto-negotiation, a protocol specified by the 1000 Base-T standard. Auto-negotiation allows each device to advertise its capabilities and discover those of its peer (link partner). The highest common denominator supported by both link partners
is automatically selected, yielding the greatest available throughput, while requiring no manual configuration. The \fBbge\fR driver also allows you to configure the advertised capabilities to less than the maximum (where the full speed of the interface is not required), or to force a specific
mode of operation, irrespective of the link partner's advertised capabilities.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.LP
The cloning character-special device, \fB/dev/bge\fR, is used to access all BCM57xx devices ( (BCM5700/5701/5703/5704, 5705/5714/5721/5751/5751M/5782 on x86) fitted to the system motherboard.
.LP
The \fBbge\fR driver is managed by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) command line utility, which allows VLANs to be defined on top of bge  instances and for \fBbge\fR instances to be aggregated. See \fBdladm\fR(1M) for more details.
.LP
You must send an explicit DL_ATTACH_REQ message to associate the opened stream with a particular device (PPA). The PPA ID is interpreted as an unsigned integer data type and indicates the corresponding device instance (unit) number. The driver returns an error (DL_ERROR_ACK) if the PPA field value
does not correspond to a valid device instance number for the system. The device is initialized on first attach and de-initialized (stopped) at last detach.
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the DL_INFO_ACK primitive in response to a DL_INFO_REQ are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU is 1500 (ETHERMTU - defined in <\fBsys/ethernet.h\fR>).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is 0.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
DLSAP address length is 8.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
MAC type is \fBDL_ETHER\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSAP\fR length value is \fI-2\fR, meaning the physical address component is followed immediately by a 2-byte \fBSAP\fR component within the \fBDLSAP\fR address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address value is the Ethernet/IEEE broadcast address (FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF).
.RE
.LP
Once in the DL_ATTACHED state, you must send a DL_BIND_REQ to associate a particular Service Access Point (SAP) with the stream.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
By default, the \fBbge\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to select the link speed and mode. Link speed and mode can be any one of the following, (as described in the \fI IEEE803.2\fR standard):
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
1000 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
1000 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.LP
The auto-negotiation protocol automatically selects:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Speed (1000 Mbps, 100 Mbps, or 10 Mbps)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Operation mode (full-duplex or half-duplex)
.RE
.LP
as the highest common denominator supported by both link partners. Because the \fBbge\fR device supports all modes, the effect is to select the highest throughput mode supported by the other device.
.LP
Alternatively, you can set the capabilities advertised by the \fBbge\fR device using \fBndd\fR(1M). The driver supports a number of parameters whose names
begin with \fIadv_\fR (see below). Each of these parameters contains a boolean value that determines whether the device advertises that mode of operation. The \fIadv_pause_cap\fR indicates whether half/full duplex pause is advertised to link partner. And the \fIadv_asym_pause_cap\fR can be set to advertise to link partner that asymmetric pause is desired. In addition, \fBbge\fR uses \fIadv_100T4_cap\fR to advertise its 100T4 capability. The \fIadv_autoneg_cap\fR parameter controls whether autonegotiation
is performed. If \fIadv_autoneg_cap\fR is set to 0, the driver forces the mode of operation selected by the first non-zero parameter in priority order as listed below:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
                        (highest priority/greatest throughput)
       adv_1000fdx_cap         1000Mbps full duplex
       adv_1000hdx_cap         1000Mpbs half duplex
       adv_100fdx_cap          100Mpbs full duplex
       adv_100hdx_cap          100Mpbs half duplex
       adv_10fdx_cap           10Mpbs full duplex
       adv_10hdx_cap           10Mpbs half duplex
                               (lowest priority/least throughput)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
For example, to prevent the device 'bge2' from advertising gigabit capabilities, enter (as super-user):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -set /dev/bge2 adv_1000hdx_cap 0
# ndd -set /dev/bge2 adv_1000fdx_cap 0
.fi
.in -2

.LP
All capabilities default to enabled. Note that changing any capability parameter causes the link to go down while the link partners renegotiate the link speed/duplex using the newly changed capabilities.
.LP
The current settings of the parameters may be found using \fBndd\fR \fB-get\fR. In addition, the driver exports the current state, speed, duplex setting, and working mode of the link via \fBndd\fR parameters (these are read only and may not be changed). For example,
to check link state of device \fBbge0\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -get /dev/bge0 link_status
1
# ndd -get /dev/bge0 link_speed
100
# ndd -get /dev/bge0 link_duplex
2
# ndd -get /dev/bge0 link_rx_pause
1
# ndd -get /dev/bge0 link_tx_pause
1
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The output above indicates that the link is up and running at 100Mbps full-duplex with its rx/tx direction pause capability. In addition, the driver exports its working mode by \fIloop_mode\fR. If it is set to 0, the loopback mode is disabled.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/bge*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Character special device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/bge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
SPARC \fBbge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/bge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
kernel module for 64-bit x86 platform
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/bge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit x86 \fBbge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/amd64/bge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 \fBbge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.LP
\fINetwork Interfaces Programmer's Guide\fR
