'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (C) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH logi 7D "1 Jan 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
logi \- LOGITECH Bus Mouse device interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/logi\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlogi\fR driver supports the LOGITECH Bus Mouse. It allows applications to obtain information about the mouse's movements and the status of its buttons. The data is read in the
Five Byte Packed Binary Format, also called MSC format.
.SH FILES
.LP
\fB/dev/logi\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
