'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH dlpi_open 3DLPI "19 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_open \- open DLPI link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fIdlpi_open\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIlinkname\fR, \fBdlpi_handle_t *\fR\fIdhp\fR, 
    \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdlpi_open()\fR function creates an open instance of the \fBDLPI\fR Version 2 link named by \fIlinkname\fR and associates it with a dynamically-allocated \fBdlpi_handle_t\fR, which is returned to the caller in \fIdhp\fR upon
success. The \fBDLPI\fR handle is left in the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fR \fBDLPI\fR state after a successful open of the \fBDLPI\fR link. This function can open both \fBDL_STYLE1\fR and \fBDL_STYLE2\fR \fBDLPI\fR links.
.LP
The \fBdlpi_open()\fR function scans the \fB/dev\fR directory for links. Within each scanned directory, \fBdlpi_open()\fR first looks for a matching \fBDL_STYLE1\fR link, then for a matching \fBDL_STYLE2\fR link. If \fIprovider\fR is considered the \fIlinkname\fR with its trailing digits removed, a matching \fBDL_STYLE1\fR link has a filename of \fIlinkname\fR, and a matching \fBDL_STYLE2\fR link has a filename of \fIprovider\fR.
If a \fBDL_STYLE2\fR link is opened, \fBdlpi_open()\fR automatically performs the necessary \fBDLPI\fR operations to place the \fBDLPI\fR link instance and the associated \fBDLPI\fR handle in the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fR state.
See \fBdlpi\fR(7P) for the definition of \fIlinkname\fR.
.LP
The value of \fIflags\fR is constructed by a bitwise-inclusive-OR of the flags listed below, defined in <libdlpi.h>.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDLPI_PASSIVE\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Enable \fBDLPI\fR passive mode (see \fBdlpi\fR(7P)) on a \fBDLPI\fR link instance. Passive mode persists until the \fBDLPI\fR handle
is closed by \fBdlpi_close\fR(3DLPI).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDLPI_RAW\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Enable \fBDLPI\fR raw mode (see \fBdlpi\fR(7P)) on a \fBDLPI\fR link instance. Raw mode persists until the \fBDLPI\fR handle
is closed by \fBdlpi_close\fR(3DLPI).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDLPI_NATIVE\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Enable \fBDLPI\fR native mode (see \fBdlpi\fR(7P)) on a \fBDLPI\fR link instance. Native mode persists until the \fBDLPI\fR handle
is closed by \fBdlpi_close\fR(3DLPI).
.RE

.LP
Each \fBDLPI\fR handle has an associated timeout value that is used as a timeout interval for certain \fBlibdlpi\fR operations. The default timeout value ensures that \fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR is returned from a \fBlibdlpi\fR operation only
in the event that the \fBDLPI\fR link becomes unresponsive. The timeout value can be changed with \fBdlpi_set_timeout\fR(3DLPI), although
this should seldom be necessary.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned, \fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a \fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or
listed in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EBADLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Bad \fBDLPI\fR link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ELINKNAMEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR \fIlinkname\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ENOLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
\fBDLPI\fR link does not exist
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
\fBDLPI\fR operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdlpi_close\fR(3DLPI), \fBdlpi_set_timeout\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
