'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.TH smf_security 5 "2 Dec 04" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
smf_security \- service management facility security behavior
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The configuration subsystem for the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), requires privilege to modify the configuration
of a service. Privileges are granted to a user by associating the authorizations
described below to the user through \fBuser_attr\fR(4)
and \fBprof_attr\fR(4).
See \fBrbac\fR(5).
.LP
The following authorization is used to manipulate services and service
instances.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Authorized to add, delete, or modify services, service instances, or
their properties.
.RE

.SS "Property Group Authorizations"
.LP
The \fBsmf\fR(5) configuration subsystem associates
properties with each service and service instance. Related properties are
grouped. Groups may represent an execution method, credential information,
application data, or restarter state. The ability to create or modify property
groups can cause \fBsmf\fR(5) components to perform actions
that may require operating system privilege. Accordingly, the framework requires
appropriate authorization to manipulate property groups.
.LP
Each property group has a type corresponding to its purpose. The core
property group types are \fBmethod\fR, \fBdependency\fR, \fBapplication\fR, and \fBframework\fR. Additional property
group types can be introduced, provided they conform to the extended naming
convention in \fBsmf\fR(5). The following basic authorizations,
however, apply only to the core property group types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify.method\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authorized to change values or create, delete, or modify a property
group of type \fBmethod\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify.dependency\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authorized to change values or create, delete, or modify a
property group of type \fBdependency\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify.application\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authorized to change values or create, delete, or modify a
property group of type \fBapplication\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify.framework\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authorized to change values or create, delete, or modify a
property group of type \fBframework\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.modify\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Authorized to add, delete, or modify services, service instances, or
their properties.
.RE

.LP
Property group-specific authorization can be specified
by properties contained in the property group.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmodify_authorization\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Authorizations allow the addition, deletion, or modification of properties
within the property group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvalue_authorization\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Authorizations allow changing the values of any property of the property
group except \fBmodify_authorization\fR.
.RE

.LP
The above authorization properties are only used if they
have type \fBastring\fR. If an instance property group does not
have one of the properties, but the instance's service has a property group
of the same name with the property, its values are used.
.SS "Service Action Authorization"
.LP
Certain actions on service instances may result in service interruption
or deactivation. These actions require an authorization to ensure that any
denial of service is a deliberate administrative action. Such actions include
a request for execution of the refresh or restart methods, or placement of
a service instance in the maintenance or other non-operational state. The
following authorization allows such actions to be requested:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsolaris.smf.manage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Authorized to request restart, refresh, or other state modification
of any service instance.
.RE

.LP
In addition, the \fBgeneral/action_authorization\fR property can specify additional authorizations that permit service
actions to be requested for that service instance. The \fBsolaris.smf.manage\fR authorization is required to modify this property.
.SS "Defined Rights Profiles"
.LP
Two rights profiles are included that offer grouped authorizations for
manipulating typical \fBsmf\fR(5) operations.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBService Management\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
A service manager
can manipulate any service in the repository in any way. It corresponds to
the \fBsolaris.smf.manage\fR and \fBsolaris.smf.modify\fR authorizations.
.sp
The service management profile is the minimum required to use the \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) or \fBpkgrm\fR(1M) commands
to add or remove software packages that contain an inventory of services in
its service manifest.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBService Operator\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
A service operator
has the ability to enable or disable any service instance on the system, as
well as request that its restart or refresh method be executed. It corresponds
to the \fBsolaris.smf.manage\fR and \fBsolaris.smf.modify.framework\fR authorizations.
.sp
Sites can define additional rights profiles customized to their needs.
.RE

.SS "Remote Repository Modification"
.LP
Remote repository servers may deny modification attempts due to additional
privilege checks. See NOTES.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBauths\fR(1), \fBprofiles\fR(1), \fBpkgadd\fR(1M), \fBpkgrm\fR(1M), \fBprof_attr\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBrbac\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The present version of \fBsmf\fR(5) does not
support remote repositories.
