'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH smf_method 5 "12 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
smf_method \- service management framework conventions for methods
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The class of services managed by \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M) in the service management framework, \fBsmf\fR(5), consists of applications that fit a simple \fBfork\fR(2)-\fBexec\fR(2) model. The \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M) master daemon and other restarters support the \fBfork\fR(2)-\fBexec\fR(2) model, potentially with additional capabilities.
The \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M) daemon and other restarters require that the methods which activate, manipulate, or examine a service instance follow the conventions described
in this manual page.
.SS "Invocation form"
.LP
The form of a method invocation is not dictated by convention. In some cases, a method invocation might consist of the direct invocation of the daemon or other binary executable that provides the service. For cases in which an executable script or other mediating executable is used,
the convention recommends the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/path/to/method_executable abbr_method_name
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The \fIabbr_method_name\fR used for the recommended form is a supported method such as \fBstart\fR or \fBstop\fR. The set of methods supported by a restarter is given on the related restarter page. The \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M) daemon supports \fBstart\fR, \fBstop\fR, and \fBrefresh\fR methods.
.LP
A restarter might define other kinds of methods beyond those referenced in this page. The conventions surrounding such extensions are defined by the restarter and might not be identical to those given here.
.SS "Environment Variables"
.LP
The restarter provides four environment variables to the method that determine the context in which the method is invoked.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSMF_FMRI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The service fault management resource identifier (FMRI) of the instance for which the method is invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSMF_METHOD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The full method name of the method that is invoked
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSMF_RESTARTER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The service FMRI of the restarter that invokes the method
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSMF_ZONENAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The name of the zone in which the method is running. This can also be obtained by using the \fBzonename\fR(1)
command.
.RE

.LP
These variables should be removed from the environment prior to the invocation of any persistent process by the method. A convenience shell function, \fBsmf_clear_env\fR, is given for service authors who use Bourne-compatible shell scripting to compose service methods
in the include file described below.
.LP
The method context may cause other environment variables to be set as described below.
.SS "Method Tokens"
.LP
A set of tokens are parsed and expanded with appropriate values from the method invocation by the restarter \fBsvc.startd\fR. Other restarters might not support method tokens. The delegated restarter for inet services, \fBinetd\fR(1M), does not support the following method expansions.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
%
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Name of the restarter, such as \fBsvc.startd\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Name of the method, such as \fBstart\fR or \fBstop\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Name of the service
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Name of the instance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB%f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
FMRI of the instance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB%{prop[:,]}\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Value(s) of a property. The \fBprop\fR might be a property FMRI, a property group name and a property name separated by a \fB/\fR, or a property name in the \fBapplication\fR property group.
These values can be followed by a \fB,\fR (comma) or \fB:\fR (colon). If present, the separators are used to separate multiple values. If absent, a space is used. The following shell metacharacters encountered in string values are quoted with a  \  (backslash):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
; & ( ) | ^ < > newline space tab  \  " '
.fi
.in -2

An invalid expansion constitutes method failure.
.RE

.LP
Two explicit tokens can be used in the place of method commands.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB:kill [-signal]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
Sends the specified signal, which is \fBSIGTERM\fR by default, to all processes in the primary instance contract. Always returns \fBSMF_EXIT_OK\fR. This token should be used to replace common \fBpkill\fR invocations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB:true\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
Always returns \fBSMF_EXIT_OK\fR. This token should be used for methods that are required by the restarter but which are unnecessary for the particular service implementation.
.RE

.SS "Exiting and Exit Status"
.LP
The required behavior of a start method is to delay exiting until the service instance is ready to answer requests or is otherwise functional.
.LP
The following exit status codes are defined in \fB<libscf.h>\fR and in the shell support file.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(1.74i) lw(.9i) lw(2.86i) 
lw(1.74i) lw(.9i) lw(2.86i) 
.
\fBSMF_EXIT_OK\fR\fB\fR0T{
Method exited, performing its operation successfully.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_ERR_FATAL\fR95T{
Method failed fatally and is unrecoverable without administrative intervention.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_ERR_CONFIG\fR\fB96\fRT{
Unrecoverable configuration error. A common condition that returns this exit status is the absence of required configuration
files for an enabled service instance.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_MON_DEGRADE\fR\fB97\fRT{
Monitor assesses service instance as operating in a degraded mode.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_MON_OFFLINE\fR\fB98\fRT{
Monitor assesses service instance as non-responsive and effectively offline.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_ERR_NOSMF\fR\fB99\fRT{
Method has been mistakenly invoked outside the \fBsmf\fR(5) facility. Services that depend on \fBsmf\fR(5) capabilities should exit with this status value.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_ERR_PERM\fR\fB100\fRT{
Method requires a form of permission such as file access, privilege, authorization, or other credential that is not
available when invoked.
T}
\fBSMF_EXIT_ERR_OTHER\fR\fBnon-zero\fRT{
Any non-zero exit status from a method is treated as an unknown error. A series of unknown errors can be diagnosed
as a fault by the restarter or on behalf of the restarter.
T}
.TE

.LP
Use of a precise exit code allows the responsible restarter to categorize an error response as likely to be intermittent and worth pursuing restart or permanent and request administrative intervention.
.SS "Timeouts"
.LP
Each method can have an independent timeout, given in seconds. The choice of a particular timeout should be based on site expectations for detecting a method failure due to non-responsiveness. Sites with replicated filesystems or other failover resources can elect to lengthen method timeouts from
the default. Sites with no remote resources can elect to shorten the timeouts. Method timeout is specified by the \fBtimeout_seconds\fR property.
.SS "Shell Programming Support"
.LP
A set of environment variables that define the above exit status values is provided with convenience shell functions in the file \fB/lib/svc/share/smf_include.sh\fR. This file is a Bourne shell script suitable for inclusion via the source operator in any Bourne-compatible shell.
.LP
To assist in the composition of scripts that can serve as SMF methods as well as \fB/etc/init.d\fR scripts, the \fBsmf_present()\fR shell function is provided. If the \fBsmf\fR(5)
facility is not available, \fBsmf_present()\fR returns a non-zero exit status.
.LP
One possible structure for such a script follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if smf_present; then
     # Shell code to run application as managed service
     ....

     smf_clear_env
else
     # Shell code to run application as /etc/init.d script
     ....
fi
.fi
.in -2

.LP
This example shows the use of both convenience functions that are provided.
.SS "Method Context"
.LP
The service management facility offers a common mechanism set the context in which the \fBfork\fR(2)-\fBexec\fR(2) model services execute.
.LP
The desired method context should be provided by the service developer. All service instances should run with the lowest level of privileges possible to limit potential security compromises.
.LP
A method context may contain the following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuse_profile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
A boolean that specifies whether the profile should be used instead of the \fBuser\fR, \fBgroup\fR, \fBprivileges\fR, and \fBlimit_privileges\fR properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBenvironment\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Environment variables to insert into the environment of the method, in the form of a number of \fBNAME=value\fR strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprofile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The name of an RBAC (role-based access control) profile which, along with the method executable, identifies an entry in \fBexec_attr\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The user ID in numeric or text form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The group ID in numeric or text form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsupp_groups\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
An optional string that specifies the supplemental group memberships by ID, in numeric or text form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprivileges\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
An optional string specifying the privilege set as defined in \fBprivileges\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlimit_privileges\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
An optional string specifying the limit privilege set as defined in \fBprivileges\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBworking_directory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The home directory from which to launch the method. \fB:home\fR can be used as a token to indicate the home directory of the user whose \fBuid\fR will be used to launch the method. If the property
is unset, \fB:home\fR is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcorefile_pattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
An optional string that specifies the corefile pattern to use for the service, as per \fBcoreadm\fR(1M).
Most restarters supply a default. Setting this property overrides local customizations to the global core pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBproject\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The project ID in numeric or text form. \fB:default\fR can be used as a token to indicate a project identified by \fBgetdefaultproj\fR(3PROJECT) for the user whose \fBuid\fR is used to launch the method.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBresource_pool\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The resource pool name on which to launch the method. \fB:default\fR can be used as a token to indicate the pool specified in the \fBproject\fR(4) entry given in the \fBproject\fR attribute above.
.RE

.LP
The method context can be set for the entire service instance by specifying a \fBmethod_context\fR property group for the service or instance. A method might override the instance method context by providing the method context properties on the method property group.
.LP
Invalid method context settings always lead to failure of the method, with the exception of invalid environment variables that issue warnings.
.LP
In addition to the context defined above, many \fBfork\fR(2)-\fBexec\fR(2) model restarters also use the following conventions when invoking executables as methods:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBArgument array\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The arguments in \fBargv[]\fR are set consistently with the result \fB/bin/sh -c\fR of the \fBexec\fR string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBFile descriptors\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
File descriptor \fB0\fR is \fB/dev/null\fR. File descriptors \fB1\fR and \fB2\fR are recommended to be a per-service log file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/svc/share/smf_include.sh\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Definitions of exit status values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/include/libscf.h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Definitions of exit status codes.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBzonename\fR(1), \fBcoreadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBgetdefaultproj\fR(3PROJECT), \fBexec_attr\fR(4), \fBproject\fR(4), \fBservice_bundle\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBrbac\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBsmf_bootstrap\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The present version of \fBsmf\fR(5) does not support multiple repositories.
