'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.TH mlib_SignalCepstral_S16_Adp 3MLIB "11 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "mediaLib Library Functions"
.SH NAME
mlib_SignalCepstral_S16_Adp \- perform cepstral analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmlib\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <mlib.h>

\fBmlib_status\fR \fBmlib_SignalCepstral_S16_Adp\fR(\fBmlib_s16 *\fR\fIcepst\fR, 
    \fBmlib_s32 *\fR\fIcscale\fR, \fBconst mlib_s16 *\fR\fIsignal\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIstate\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBmlib_SignalCepstral_S16_Adp()\fR function performs cepstral analysis.
The scaling factor of the output data will be calculated based on the actual data.
.LP
The basic operations to compute the cepstrum is shown below.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
      +-----------+      +--------+       +-----------+
     |  Fourier  |      |        |       |  Inverse  |
----->|           |----->| log|*| |------>|  Fourier  |----->
x(n) | Transform | X(k) |        | X'(k) | Transform | c(n)
     +-----------+      +--------+       +-----------+
.fi
.in -2

.LP
where \fBx(n)\fR is the input signal and
\fBc(n)\fR is its cepstrum. In mathematics, they are
.sp
.in +2
.nf
       N-1                2*PI*k*n
X(k) = SUM x(n) * exp(-j*----------)
      n=0                   N

X'(k) = log|X(k)|

       1  N-1                2*PI*k*n
c(n) = --- SUM X'(k) * exp(j*----------)
       N  n=0                   N
.fi
.in -2

.LP
Since \fBX'(k)\fR is real and even (symmetric), i.e.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
X'(k) = X'(N - k)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
the \fBc(n)\fR is real and the equation becomes Cosine transform.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
        1  N-1              2*PI*k*n
c(n) = --- SUM X'(k) * cos(----------)
       N  n=0                 N
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The cepstral coefficients in LPC is a special case of the above.
.LP
See \fIDigital Signal Processing\fR by Alan V. Oppenheim and Ronald W. Schafer, Prentice Hall, 1974.
.LP
See \fIFundamentals of Speech Recognition\fR by Lawrence Rabinerand Biing-Hwang Juang, Prentice Hall, 1993.
.SH PARAMETERS
.LP
The function takes the following arguments:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcepst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The cepstral coefficients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcscale\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The scaling factor of cepstral coefficients,
where \fBactual_data = output_data * 2**(-scaling_factor)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsignal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The input signal vector, the signal samples are in Q15 format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Pointer to the internal state structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
The function returns \fBMLIB_SUCCESS\fR if successful. Otherwise it returns \fBMLIB_FAILURE\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmlib_SignalCepstralInit_S16\fR(3MLIB),
\fBmlib_SignalCepstral_S16\fR(3MLIB),
\fBmlib_SignalCepstralFree_S16\fR(3MLIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
