'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.TH libaio 3LIB "11 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libaio \- asynchronous I/O library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-laio\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library perform asynchronous I/O operations.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibaio.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBaiocancel\fR\fBaioread\fR
\fBaiowait\fR\fBaiowrite\fR
\fBassfail\fR\fBclose\fR
\fBfork\fR\fBsigaction\fR
.TE

.LP
The following interfaces are unique to the 32-bit version of this library:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBaioread64\fR\fBaiowrite64\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libaio.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libaio.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBintro\fR(2), \fBintro\fR(3), \fBaiocancel\fR(3AIO), \fBaioread\fR(3AIO), \fBaiowait\fR(3AIO), \fBaiowrite\fR(3AIO), \fBaio.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
