'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH librtld_db 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
librtld_db \- runtime linker debugging library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lrtld_db\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <\fBproc_service.h\fR>
#include <\fBrtld_db.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions is this library are useful for building
debuggers for dynamically linked programs. For a full description of these interfaces refer to the \fI\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibrtld_db.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBrd_delete\fR\fBrd_errstr\fR
\fBrd_event_addr\fR\fBrd_event_enable\fR
\fBrd_event_getmsg\fR\fBrd_init\fR
\fBrd_loadobj_iter\fR\fBrd_log\fR
\fBrd_new\fR\fBrd_objpad_enable\fR
\fBrd_plt_resolution\fR\fBrd_reset\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/librtld_db.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/librtld_db.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBpvs\fR(1), \fBintro\fR(3), \fBrtld_db\fR(3EXT), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.LP
\fI\fR
