'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH ctstat 1 "15 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ctstat \- display active system
contracts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ctstat\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid...\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype...\fR] [\fB-v\fR] 
    [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBctstat\fR utility allows a user to observe the contracts active on a system.
.LP
Unless you specify the \fB-i\fR or \fB-t\fR option, \fBctstat\fR displays statistics on all contracts in the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Display all contracts regardless of state. By default, this option only displays those contracts which are in the owned, inherited, or orphan states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid\fR...\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Request status on the specified contracts, identified by their numeric contract identifier (\fIcontract_id\fR).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments . Items in the list can be separated by commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR...\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Request status on contracts of the specified type (\fItype\fR).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments. Items in the list can be separated by commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.sp
The following types are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprocess\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Process contracts
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Verbose output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Report once each \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Print only \fIcount\fR reports.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.LP
The following list defines the column headings and the meanings of a \fBctstat\fR report:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCTID\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The contract \fBID\fR of the contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBZONEID\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The zone ID of the contract's creator.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTYPE\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The contract type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSTATE\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The state of the contract:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBowned\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Contract is owned by a process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBinherited\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The contract owner has exited abnormally and the contract has been inherited by the owner's process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBorphan\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The contract owner has abandoned the contract, the contract owner exited abnormally and the contract was not inherited by the owner's process contract, or the process contract which had inherited the contract was abandoned by its owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdead\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The contract is no longer active. It is removed from the system automatically when all references to it (open file descriptors, contract templates, and events) have been released.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBHOLDER\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
If the contract is in the \fBowned\fR state, the pid of the process that owns the contract. If the contract is in the \fBinherited\fR state, the id of the regent process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBEVENTS\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The number of unacknowledged critical events pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBQTIME\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The time until quantum ends, or \fB-\fR if no negotiation is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBNTIME\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The time until negotiation ends, or \fB-\fR if no negotiation is in progress.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRReporting on all Contracts in the System
.LP
The following example reports on all contracts in the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -a

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
2       process dead    -       1       -       -
3       process inherit 1       3       -       -
4       process orphan  -       0       -       -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRObtaining a Verbose Report of All Contracts in the System
.LP
The following example obtains a verbose report of all contracts in the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -av

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
       informative event set:  none
       critical event set:     hwerr core
       fatal event set:        hwerr
       parameter set:          none
       member processes:       100600 100601
       inherited ctids:        none
2       process dead    -       1       -       -
       informative event set:  none
       critical event set:     none
       fatal event set:        hwerr core
       parameter set:          pgrponly
       member processes:       none
       inherited ctids:        none
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.SH FILES
.LP
\fB/system/contract/*\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.LP
Human Readable Output is Unstable. Invocation is Evolving.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBctrun\fR(1), \fBctwatch\fR(1), \fBcontract\fR(4), \fBprocess\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
