'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.TH elfdump 1 "20 March 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
elfdump \- dumps selected parts of an object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBelfdump\fR [\fB-cCdegGhHiklmnprsuvy\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIindex-expr\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBelfdump\fR utility symbolically dumps selected parts
of the specified object file(s). The options allow specific portions of the
file to be displayed.
.LP
The \fBelfdump\fR utility is similar in function to the \fBdump\fR(1) utility. The \fBdump\fR utility
offers an older and less user-friendly interface than \fBelfdump\fR,
although \fBdump\fR might be more appropriate for certain uses
such as in shell scripts.
.LP
Archive files, produced by \fBar\fR(1),
can also be inspected with \fBelfdump\fR. In this case, each
object within the archive is processed using the options supplied.
.LP
For a complete description of the displayed information, refer to the \fI\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps section header information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Demangles C++ symbol names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.dynamic\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the \fBELF\fR header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.group\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.got\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.hash\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_cap\fR hardware
and software capabilities section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.interp\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR  \fIindex-expr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Qualifies the sections or program headers to examine with
a specific index or index range. For example, the third section header in
a file can be displayed using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -c -I 3 \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

An \fIindex-expr\fR can be a single non-negative
integer value that specifies a specific item, as shown in the previous example.
Alternatively, an \fIindex-expr\fR can consist of two
such values separated by a colon (:), indicating a range of items. The following
example displays the third, fourth, and fifth program headers in a file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -I 3:5 \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When specifying an index range, the second value can be omitted to indicate
the final item in the file. For example, the following statement lists all
section headers from the tenth to the end:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -c -I 10: \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See NOTES for additional information about the \fB-I\fR and \fB-N\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Calculates the \fBELF\fR checksum. See \fBgelf_checksum\fR(3ELF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Displays long section names without truncation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_move\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.note\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Qualifies the sections or program headers to examine with
a specific name. For example, in a file that contains more than one symbol
table, the \fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table can be displayed using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -s -N .dynsym \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the \fB-p\fR option is specified, \fIname\fR refers
to the program header type, which allows for the display of specific program
headers. For example, the program header that identifies an interpreter can
be displayed using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -p -N PT_INTERP \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See NOTES for additional information about the \fB-I\fR and \fB-N\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the program headers. Individual program headers can
be specified with the \fB-I\fR or \fB-N\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.rel\fR[\fBa\fR]
relocation sections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR, \fB\&.dynsym\fR, and \fB\&.symtab\fR symbol table sections. For
archives, the archive symbol table is also dumped. Individual sections can
be specified with the \fB-I\fR or \fB-N\fR options. An
archive symbol table can be specified using the special section name \fB-N\fR \fBARSYM\fR.
.sp
In the case of core files, the \fBshndx\fR field will have
the value "\fBunknown\fR" since the field does not
contain the valid values.
.sp
In addition to the standard symbol table information, the version definition
index of the symbol is also provided under the \fIver\fR heading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR and \fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table sections sorted in the order given by the \fB\&.SUNW_dynsymsort\fR and \fB\&.SUNW_dyntlssort\fR symbol
sort sections. Thread Local Storage (TLS) symbols are sorted by offset. Regular
symbols are sorted by address. Symbols not referenced by the sort sections
are not displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of a frame unwind.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW\fR\fI_version\fR version sections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Writes the contents of sections which are specified with the \fB-I\fR or \fB-N\fR options to the named file. For example, extracting
the \fB\&.text\fR section of a file can be carried out with:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBelfdump -w text.out -N .text \fIfilename\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Dumps the contents of the \fB\&.SUNW_syminfo\fR section.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The name of the specified object file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBliblddbg.so\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
linker debugging library
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for
descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
_
Interface StabilityStable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBdump\fR(1), \fBnm\fR(1), \fBpvs\fR(1), \fBelf\fR(3ELF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.LP
By default, \fBelfdump\fR displays data from all sections
or program headers that contain relevant information for the specified query.
The \fB-I\fR, and \fB-N\fR options can be used with some
options in order to narrow the range of sections or program headers to examine.
The meaning of the \fB-I\fR, and \fB-N\fR options depends
on the other options used. When used with \fB-p\fR, program headers
are selected. Sections are specified when used with \fB-c\fR, \fB-g\fR, \fB-m\fR, \fB-n\fR, \fB-r\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-S\fR, \fB-u\fR, and \fB-w\fR. \fB-I\fR,
or\fB-N\fR are quietly ignored when used with any other option.
.LP
The \fB-I\fR option can be used in combination with the \fB-N\fR option in order to specify multiple items by index or by name. In
addition, either option can be specified multiple times in order to select
additional items. These features allow for the selection of complex groupings
of items.
