'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  For copying and distribution information,  please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH kinit 1 "16 Nov 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kinit \- obtain and cache Kerberos ticket-granting ticket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/kinit\fR [\fB-ARvV\fR] [\fB-p\fR | \fB-P\fR] [\fB-f\fR | \fB-F\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcache_name\fR] 
    [\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab_file\fR]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlifetime\fR] 
    [\fB-r\fR \fIrenewable_life\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIstart_time\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIservice_name\fR] 
    [\fIprincipal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBkinit\fR command is used to obtain and cache an initial ticket-granting ticket (credential) for \fIprincipal\fR. This ticket is used for authentication by the Kerberos system. Notice that only users with Kerberos principals can use the Kerberos system.
For information about Kerberos principals, see \fBkerberos\fR(5). 
.LP
When you use \fBkinit\fR without options, the utility prompts for your \fIprincipal\fR and Kerberos password, and tries to authenticate your login with the local Kerberos server. The \fIprincipal\fR can be specified on the command line
if desired.
.LP
If Kerberos authenticates the login attempt, \fBkinit\fR retrieves your initial ticket-granting ticket and puts it in the ticket cache. By default your ticket will be stored in the file \fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR\fR, where \fIuid\fR specifies
your user identification number. Tickets expire after a specified lifetime, after which \fBkinit\fR must be run again. Any existing contents of the cache are destroyed by \fBkinit\fR.
.LP
Values specified in the command line override the values specified in the Kerberos configuration file for \fIlifetime\fR and \fIrenewable_life\fR.
.LP
The \fBkdestroy\fR(1) command may be used to destroy any active tickets before you end your login session.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests  tickets  with  the  local  addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests address-less tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcache_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Uses \fIcache_name\fR as the credentials (ticket) cache name and location. If this option is not used, the default cache name and location are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests forwardable tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Not forwardable. Does not request forwardable tickets.
.sp
Tickets that have been acquired on one host cannot normally be used on another host. A client can request that the ticket be marked forwardable. Once the \fBTKT_FLG_FORWARDABLE\fR flag is set on a ticket, the user can use this ticket to request a new ticket, but with a different \fBIP\fR address. Thus, users can use their current credentials to get credentials valid on another machine. This option allows a user to explicitly obtain a non-forwardable ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR [\fB-t\fR \fIkeytab_file\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests a host ticket, obtained from a key in the local host's \fIkeytab\fR file. The name and location of the keytab file may be specified with the \fB-t\fR \fIkeytab_file\fR option. Otherwise, the default name and location
will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlifetime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests a ticket with the lifetime \fIlifetime\fR. If the \fB-l\fR option is not specified, the default ticket lifetime (configured by each site) is used. Specifying a ticket lifetime longer than the maximum ticket lifetime (configured by each site)
results in a ticket with the maximum lifetime. See the \fBTime\fR \fBFormats\fR section for the valid time duration formats that you can specify for \fIlifetime\fR. See \fBkdc.conf\fR(4) and \fBkadmin\fR(1M) (for \fBgetprinc\fR command to verify the lifetime values for the
server principal).
.sp
The lifetime of the tickets returned will be the minimum of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the command line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the \fBKDC\fR configuration file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos data base for the server principal. In the case of \fBkinit\fR, it is \fBkrbtgt/\fIrealm name\fR\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos database for the user principal.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests proxiable tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Not proxiable. Does not request proxiable tickets.
.sp
A proxiable ticket is a ticket that allows you to get a ticket for a service with \fBIP\fR addresses other than the ones in the Ticket Granting Ticket. This option allows a user to explicitly obtain a non-proxiable ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIrenewable_life\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests renewable tickets, with a total lifetime of \fIrenewable_life\fR. See the \fBTime\fR \fBFormats\fR section for the valid time duration formats that you can specify for \fIrenewable_life\fR. See \fBkdc.conf\fR(4) and \fBkadmin\fR(1M) (for \fBgetprinc\fR command to verify the lifetime values for the server principal).
.sp
The renewable lifetime of the tickets returned will be the minimum of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the command line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the \fBKDC\fR configuration file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos data base for the server principal. In the case of \fBkinit\fR, it is \fBkrbtgt/\fIrealm name\fR\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Value specified in the Kerberos database for the user principal.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests renewal of the ticket-granting ticket. Notice that an expired ticket cannot be renewed, even if the ticket is still within its renewable life.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIstart_time\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests a postdated ticket, valid starting at \fIstart_time\fR. Postdated tickets are issued with the \fIinvalid\fR flag set, and need to be fed back to the \fBKDC\fR before use. See the \fBTime\fR \fBFormats\fR section
for either the valid absolute time or time duration formats that you can specify for \fIstart_time\fR. \fBkinit\fR attempts to match an absolute time first before trying to match a time duration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIservice_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specifies an alternate service name to use when getting initial tickets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Requests that the ticket granting ticket in the cache (with the \fIinvalid\fR flag set) be passed to the \fBKDC\fR for validation. If the ticket is within its requested time range, the cache is replaced with the validated ticket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Verbose output. Displays further information to the user, such as confirmation of authentication and version.
.RE

.SS "Time Formats"
.LP
The following absolute time formats can be used for the \fB-s\fR \fIstart_time\fR option. The examples are based on the date and time of July 2, 1999, 1:35:30 p.m. 
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
Absolute Time FormatExample 
\fIyymmddhhmm\fR[\fIss\fR]990702133530
\fIhhmm\fR[\fIss\fR]133530
\fIyy\fR.\fImm\fR.\fBdd\fR.\fIhh\fR.\fImm\fR.\fIss\fR99:07:02:13:35:30
\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]13:35:30
\fIldate\fR:\fIltime\fR07-07-99:13:35:30
\fBdd\fR-\fImonth\fR-\fIyyyy\fR:\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]02-july-1999:13:35:30
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
VariableDescription
\fBdd\fRday
\fIhh\fRhour (24-hour clock)
\fImm\fRminutes
\fIss\fRseconds
\fIyy\fRT{
year within century (0-68 is 2000 to 2068; 69-99 is 1969 to 1999)
T}
\fIyyyy\fRyear including century
\fImonth\fRlocale's full or abbreviated month name
\fIldate\fRlocale's appropriate date representation
\fIltime\fRlocale's appropriate time representation
.TE

.LP
The following time duration formats can be used for the \fB-l\fR \fIlifetime\fR, \fB-r\fR \fIrenewable_life\fR, and \fB-s\fR \fIstart_time\fR options. The examples are based on the time duration
of 14 days, 7 hours, 5 minutes, and 30 seconds.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
Time Duration FormatExample
\fI#\fRd14d
\fI#\fRh7h
\fI#\fRm5m
\fI#\fRs30s
\fI#\fRd\fI#\fRh\fI#\fRm\fI#\fRs14d7h5m30s 
\fI#\fRh\fI#\fRm[\fI#\fRs]7h5m30s
\fIdays\fR-\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR14-07:05:30
\fIhours\fR:\fImm\fR[:\fIss\fR]7:05:30
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
DelimiterDescription
dnumber of days
hnumber of hours 
mnumber of minutes
snumber of seconds
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
VariableDescription
\fI#\fRnumber
\fIdays\fRnumber of days
\fIhours\fRnumber of hours
\fIhh\fRhour (24-hour clock)
\fImm\fRminutes
\fIss\fRseconds
.TE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
\fBkinit\fR uses the following environment variable:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBKRB5CCNAME\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Location of the credentials (ticket) cache. See \fBkrb5envvar\fR(5) for syntax and details.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/krb5cc_\fIuid\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Default credentials cache (\fIuid\fR is the decimal \fBUID\fR of the user).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/krb5/krb5.keytab\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Default location for the local host's \fBkeytab\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/krb5/krb5.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Default location for the local host's configuration file. See \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWkrbu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.LP
The command arguments are Evolving. The command output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkdestroy\fR(1), \fBklist\fR(1), \fBkadmin\fR(1M), \fBktkt_warnd\fR(1M), \fBkdc.conf\fR(4), \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBkerberos\fR(5), \fBkrb5envvar\fR(5), \fBpam_krb5\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
On success, \fBkinit\fR notifies \fBktkt_warnd\fR(1M) to alert the user when the initial credentials (ticket-granting ticket) are about to expire.
