'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH ranlib 1 "13 Apr 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ranlib \- convert archives to random libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ccs/bin/ranlib\fR \fIarchive\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBranlib\fR utility was used in SunOS 4.\fIx\fR to add a table of contents to archive libraries, which
converted each archive to a form that could be linked more rapidly. This is no longer needed, as the \fBar\fR(1) command automatically provides all the functionality \fBranlib\fR used to
provide.
.LP
This script is provided as a convenience for software developers who need to maintain Makefiles that are portable across a variety of operating systems.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
\fBranlib\fR has exit status \fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbtool
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5)
