'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems Inc. All rights reserved.
.TH libtsol 3LIB "7 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libtsol \- Solaris Trusted Extensions library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBtsol.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide programmatic access to Solaris Trusted Extensions features such as labels and Mandatory Access Policy (MAC) on systems that are configured with Trusted Extensions software.
.LP
The functions in this library are available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibtsol.so.2\fR provides the public interfaces that are defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.SS "Stable and Evolving Functions"
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBbldominates\fR\fBblequal\fR
\fBblstrictdom\fR\fBgetpathbylabel\fR
\fBgetplabel\fR\fBgetdevicerange\fR
\fBgetuserrange\fR\fBgetzoneidbylabel\fR
\fBgetzonelabelbyid\fR\fBgetzonerootbyid\fR
\fBgetzonerootbylabel\fR\fBgetzonerootbyname\fR
\fBlabel_to_str\fR\fBlabelbuilder\fR
\fBlabelclipping\fR\fBm_label_alloc\fR
\fBm_label_dup\fR\fBm_label_free\fR
\fBsetflabel\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBtsol_lbuild_create\fR\fBtsol_lbuild_destroy\fR
\fBtsol_lbuild_get\fR\fBtsol_lbuild_set\fR
\fBXbcleartos\fR\fBXbsltos\fR
.TE

.SS "Obsolete Functions"
.LP
The following functions are preserved to aid porting.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
FunctionStable Replacement
\fBbcleartoh\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbcleartoh_r\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbcleartos\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbltocolor\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbltocolor_r\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltoh\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltoh_r\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltos\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBh_alloc\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBh_free\fR\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBhtobclear\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBhtobsl\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBsbcleartos\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBsbsltos\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBstobsl\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBstobclear\fR\fBstr_to_label\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libtsol.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libtsol.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
_
Interface StabilityT{
See the manual pages for the individual Trusted Extensions functions.  These manual pages are available only if the system has been configured with Trusted Extensions.
T}
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibtsnet\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
