'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution. Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH libauto_ef 3LIB "22 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libauto_ef \- auto encoding finder library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lauto_ef\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <auto_ef.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide automatic encoding identification.
.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
The shared object \fBlibauto_ef.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBauto_ef_file\fR\fBauto_ef_free\fR
\fBauto_ef_get_encoding\fR\fBauto_ef_get_score\fR
\fBauto_ef_str\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libauto_ef.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libauto_ef.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWautoef (32-bit)
_
SUNWautoefx (64-bit)
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBauto_ef\fR(1), \fBauto_ef\fR(3EXT), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.LP

