'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH libmd 3LIB "07 Feb 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libmd \- Message Digest library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmd\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBmd4.h\fR>
#include <\fBmd5.h\fR>
#include <\fBsha1.h\fR>
#include <\fBsha2.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide hashing routines for \fBMD4 (RFC1320)\fR, \fBMD5 (RFC1321)\fR, \fBSHA1 (RFC3174)\fR, \fBSHA256 (FIPS 180-2)\fR, \fBSHA384 (FIPS 180-2)\fR, \fBSHA512 (FIPS 180-2)\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibmd.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBMD4Final\fR\fBMD4Update\fR\fBMD4Init\fR
\fBMD5Final\fR\fBMD5Update\fR\fBMD5Init\fR\fBmd5_calc\fR
\fBSHA1Final\fR\fBSHA1Update\fR\fBSHA1Init\fR
\fBSHA2Final\fR\fBSHA2Update\fR\fBSHA2Init\fR
.TE

.SH SECURITY
.LP
The \fBMD4\fR and \fBMD5\fR algorithms are currently considered weak for cryptographic use. The algorithms should be used only for compatibility with legacy systems or protocols.
.LP
The \fBSHA1\fR algorithm is also believed to have some weaknesses. Migration to one of the \fBSHA2\fR algorithms-including \fBSHA256\fR, \fBSHA386\fR or \fBSHA512\fR-is highly recommended when compatibility with data formats
and on wire protocols is permitted.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libmd.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libmd.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStable
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

