'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH boot 1M "30 May 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
boot \- start the system kernel or a standalone program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "SPARC"
.LP
.nf
\fBboot\fR [\fIOBP\fR \fInames\fR] [\fIfile\fR] [\fB-aV\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIdefault-file\fR] 
    [\fIboot-flags\fR] [\fB\(mi\(mi\fR] [\fIclient-program-args\fR]
.fi

.SS "x86"
.LP
.nf
\fBkernel$\fR \fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/$ISADIR/unix\fR [\fIboot-args\fR]
    [\fB-B\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIval\fR [,\fIval\fR...]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBi\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Bootstrapping is the process of loading and executing a standalone program. For the purpose of this discussion, bootstrapping means the process of loading and executing the bootable operating system. Typically, the standalone program is the operating system kernel (see \fBkernel\fR(1M)), but any standalone program can be booted instead. On a SPARC-based system, the diagnostic monitor for a machine is a good example of a standalone program other than the operating
system that can be booted.
.LP
If the standalone is identified as a dynamically-linked executable, \fBboot\fR will load the interpreter (linker/loader) as indicated by the executable format and then transfer control to the interpreter. If the standalone is statically-linked, it will jump directly to the standalone.
.LP
Once the kernel is loaded, it starts the UNIX system, mounts the necessary file systems (see \fBvfstab\fR(4)), and runs \fB/sbin/init\fR to bring
the system to the "initdefault" state specified in \fB/etc/inittab\fR. See \fBinittab\fR(4).
.SS "SPARC Bootstrap Procedure"
.LP
On SPARC based systems, the bootstrap procedure on most machines consists of the following basic phases.
.LP
After the machine is turned on, the system firmware (in PROM) executes power-on self-test (POST). The form and scope of these tests depends on the version of the firmware in your system.
.LP
After the tests have been completed successfully, the firmware attempts to autoboot if the appropriate flag has been set in the non-volatile storage area used by the firmware. The name of the file to load, and the device to load it from can also be manipulated.
.LP
These flags and names can be set using the \fBeeprom\fR(1M) command from the shell, or by using \fBPROM\fR commands from the \fBok\fR prompt
after the system has been halted.
.LP
The second level program is either \fBufsboot\fR (when booting from a disk), or \fBinetboot\fR or \fBwanboot\fR (when booting across the network).
.LP
Network Booting
.LP
Network booting occurs in two steps: the client first obtains an IP address and any other parameters necessary to permit it to load the second-stage booter. The second-stage booter in turn loads the UNIX kernel.
.LP
An IP address can be obtained in one of three ways: RARP, DHCP, or manual configuration, depending on the functions available in and configuration of the PROM. Machines of the \fBsun4u\fR kernel architecture have DHCP-capable PROMs.
.LP
The boot command syntax for specifying the two methods of network booting are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
boot net:rarp
boot net:dhcp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
boot net
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
without a \fBrarp\fR or \fBdhcp\fR specifier, invokes the default method for network booting over the network interface for which \fBnet\fR is an alias.
.LP
The sequence of events for network booting using RARP/\fBbootparams\fR is described in the following paragraphs. The sequence for DHCP follows the RARP/\fBbootparams\fR description. 
.LP
When booting over the network using RARP/\fBbootparams\fR, the PROM begins by broadcasting a reverse ARP request until it receives a reply. When a reply is received, the PROM then broadcasts a TFTP request to fetch the first block of \fBinetboot\fR. Subsequent
requests will be sent to the server that initially answered the first block request. After loading, \fBinetboot\fR will also use reverse ARP to fetch its IP address, then broadcast \fBbootparams\fR RPC calls (see \fBbootparams\fR(4)) to locate configuration information and its root file system. \fBinetboot\fR then loads the kernel via NFS and transfers control to it.
.LP
When booting over the network using DHCP, the PROM broadcasts the hardware address and kernel architecture and requests an IP address, boot parameters, and network configuration information. After a DHCP server responds and is selected (from among potentially multiple servers), that server
sends to the client an IP address and all other information needed to boot the client. After receipt of this information, the client PROM examines the name of the file to be loaded, and will behave in one of two ways, depending on whether the file's name appears to be an HTTP URL. If it does not,
the PROM downloads \fBinetboot\fR, loads that file into memory, and executes it. \fBinetboot\fR invokes the kernel, which loads the files it needs and releases inetboot. Startup scripts then initiate the DHCP agent (see \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M)), which implements further DHCP activities.
.LP
If the file to be loaded is an HTTP URL, the PROM will use HTTP to load the referenced file. If the client has been configured with an HMAC SHA-1 key, it will check the integrity of the loaded file before proceeding to execute it. The file is expected to be the \fBwanboot\fR binary.
When \fBwanboot\fR begins executing, it will determine whether sufficient information is available to it to allow it to proceed. If any necessary information is missing, it will either exit with an appropriate error or bring up a command interpreter and prompt for further configuration
information. Once \fBwanboot\fR has obtained the necessary information, it will load its boot file system into memory by means of HTTP. If an encryption key has been installed on the client, \fBwanboot\fR will decrypt the file system image and its accompanying hash (presence
of an encryption key but no hashing key is an error), then verify the hash. The boot file system contains various configuration data needed to allow \fBwanboot\fR to set the correct time and proceed to obtain a root file system.
.LP
The boot file system is examined to determine whether \fBwanboot\fR should use HTTP or secure HTTP. If the former, and if the client has been configured with an HMAC SHA-1 key, \fBwanboot\fR will perform an integrity check of the root file system. Once the root
file system has been loaded into memory (and possibly had an integrity check performed), \fBwanboot\fR loads and executes UNIX from it. If provided with a \fBboot_logger\fR URL by means of the \fBwanboot.conf\fR(4) file, \fBwanboot\fR will periodically log its progress.
.LP
Not all PROMs are capable of consuming URLs. You can determine whether a client is so capable using the \fBlist-security-keys\fR OBP command (see \fBmonitor\fR(1M)).
.LP
WAN booting is not currently available on the x86 platform.
.LP
The \fBwanboot\fR Command Line
.LP
When the client program is \fBwanboot\fR, it accepts \fBclient-program-args\fR of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
boot ... -o \fIopt1\fR[,\fIopt2\fR[,...]]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
where each option may be an action:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdhcp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Require \fBwanboot\fR to obtain configuration parameters by means of DHCP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprompt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Cause \fBwanboot\fR to enter its command interpreter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fI<cmd>\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
One of the interpreter commands listed below.
.RE

.LP
\&...or an assignment, using the interpreter's parameter names listed below.
.LP
The \fBwanboot\fR Command Interpreter
.LP
The \fBwanboot\fR command interpreter is invoked by supplying a \fBclient-program-args\fR of "\fB-o prompt\fR" when booting. Input consists of single commands or assignments, or a comma-separated list of commands or assignments. The configuration
parameters are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhost-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
IP address of the client (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrouter-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
IP address of the default router (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsubnet-mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
subnet mask (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclient-id\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
DHCP client identifier (a quoted ASCII string or hex ASCII)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
hostname to request in DHCP transactions (ASCII)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhttp-proxy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
HTTP proxy server specification (IPADDR[:PORT])
.RE

.LP
The key names are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB3des\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
the triple DES encryption key (48 hex ASCII characters)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
the AES encryption key (32 hex ASCII characters)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsha1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
the HMAC SHA-1 signature key (40 hex ASCII characters)
.RE

.LP
Finally, the URL or the WAN boot CGI is referred to by means of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBbootserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
URL of WAN boot's CGI (the equivalent of OBP's \fBfile\fR parameter)
.RE

.LP
The interpreter accepts the following commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhelp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print a brief description of the available commands
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fIvar\fR=\fIval\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Assign \fIval\fR to \fIvar\fR, where \fIvar\fR is one of the configuration parameter names, the key names, or \fBbootserver\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fIvar\fR=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Unset parameter \fIvar\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
List all parameters and their values (key values retrieved by means of OBP are never shown).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprompt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Prompt for values for unset parameters. The name of each parameter and its current value (if any) is printed, and the user can accept this value (press Return) or enter a new value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Once the user is satisfied that all values have been entered, leave the interpreter and continue booting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBexit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Quit the boot interpreter and return to OBP's \fBok\fR prompt.
.RE

.LP
Any of these assignments or commands can be passed on the command line as part of the \fB-o\fR options, subject to the OBP limit of 128 bytes for boot arguments. For example, \fB-o\fR \fBlist,go\fR would simply list current (default) values of the parameters
and then continue booting.
.LP
Booting from Disk
.LP
When booting from disk (or disk-like device), the bootstrapping process consists of two conceptually distinct phases, primary boot and secondary boot. In the primary boot phase, the PROM loads the primary boot block from blocks 1 to 15 of the disk partition selected as the boot device.
.LP
If the pathname to the standalone is relative (does not begin with a slash), the second level boot will look for the standalone in a platform-dependent search path. This path is guaranteed to contain \fB/platform/\fR\fIplatform-name\fR. Many SPARC platforms
next search the platform-specific path entry \fB/platform/\fR\fIhardware-class-name\fR. See \fBfilesystem\fR(5). If the pathname
is absolute, \fBboot\fR will use the specified path. The \fBboot\fR program then loads the standalone at the appropriate address, and then transfers control.
.LP
If the filename is not given on the command line or otherwise specified, for example, by the \fBboot-file\fR NVRAM variable, \fBboot\fR chooses an appropriate default file to load based on what software is installed on the system and the capabilities of the hardware
and firmware.
.LP
The path to the kernel must not contain any whitespace.
.SS "OpenBoot PROM \fBboot\fR Command Behavior"
.LP
The OpenBoot \fBboot\fR command takes arguments of the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok boot [\fIdevice-specifier\fR] [\fIarguments\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The default \fBboot\fR command has no arguments:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok boot
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
If no \fIdevice-specifier\fR is given on the \fBboot\fR command line, OpenBoot typically uses the \fIboot-device\fR or \fIdiag-device\fR \fBNVRAM\fR variable. If no optional \fIarguments\fR are
given on the command line, OpenBoot typically uses the \fIboot-file\fR or \fIdiag-file\fR \fBNVRAM\fR variable as default \fBboot\fR arguments. (If the system is in diagnostics mode, \fIdiag-device\fR and \fIdiag-file\fR are used instead of \fIboot-device\fR and \fIboot-file\fR).
.LP
\fIarguments\fR may include more than one string. All \fIargument\fR strings are passed to the secondary booter; they are not interpreted by OpenBoot. 
.LP
If any \fIarguments\fR are specified on the \fBboot\fR command line, then neither the \fIboot-file\fR nor the \fIdiag-file\fR \fBNVRAM\fR variable is used. The contents of the \fBNVRAM\fR variables
are not merged with command line arguments. For example, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok \fBboot\fR \fB-s\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
ignores the settings in both \fIboot-file\fR and \fIdiag-file\fR; it interprets the string \fB"-s"\fR as \fIarguments\fR. \fBboot\fR will not use the contents of \fIboot-file\fR or \fIdiag-file\fR.
.LP
With older PROMs, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok \fBboot net\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
took no arguments, using instead the settings in \fIboot-file\fR or \fIdiag-file\fR (if set) as the default file name and arguments to pass to boot. In most cases, it is best to allow the \fBboot\fR command to choose an appropriate default
based upon the system type, system hardware and firmware, and upon what is installed on the root file system. Changing \fIboot-file\fR or \fIdiag-file\fR can generate unexpected results in certain circumstances.
.LP
This behavior is found on most OpenBoot 2.x and 3.x based systems. Note that differences may occur on some platforms.
.LP
The command:
.LP
ok \fBboot cdrom\fR
.LP
\&...also normally takes no arguments. Accordingly, if \fIboot-file\fR is set to the 64-bit kernel filename and you attempt to boot the installation CD or DVD with \fBboot cdrom\fR, boot will fail if the installation media contains only a 32-bit kernel.
.LP
Because the contents of \fIboot-file\fR or \fIdiag-file\fR can be ignored depending on the form of the \fBboot\fR command used, reliance upon \fIboot-file\fR should be discouraged for most production systems.
.LP
When executing a WAN boot from a local (CD or DVD) copy of wanboot, one must use:
.LP
ok \fBboot cdrom -F wanboot - install\fR
.LP
Modern PROMs have enhanced the network boot support package to support the following syntax for arguments to be processed by the package:
.LP
[\fIprotocol\fR,] [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR,]*
.LP
All arguments are optional and can appear in any order. Commas are required unless the argument is at the end of the list. If specified, an argument takes precedence over any default values, or, if booting using DHCP, over configuration information provided by a DHCP server for those parameters.
.LP
\fIprotocol\fR, above, specifies the address discovery protocol to be used.
.LP
Configuration parameters, listed below, are specified as \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR attribute pairs.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtftp-server\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
IP address of the TFTP server
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
file to download using TFTP or URL for WAN boot
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhost-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
IP address of the client (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrouter-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
IP address of the default router
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsubnet-mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
subnet mask (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclient-id\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
DHCP client identifier
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
hostname to use in DHCP transactions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhttp-proxy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
HTTP proxy server specification (IPADDR[:PORT])
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtftp-retries\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
maximum number of TFTP retries
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdhcp-retries\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
maximum number of DHCP retries
.RE

.LP
The list of arguments to be processed by the network boot support package is specified in one of two ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
As arguments passed to the package's \fBopen\fR method, or
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
arguments listed in the NVRAM variable \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR.
.RE
.LP
Arguments specified in \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR will be processed only if there are no arguments passed to the package's \fBopen\fR method.
.LP
Argument Values
.LP
\fIprotocol\fR specifies the address discovery protocol to be used. If present, the possible values are \fBrarp\fR or \fBdhcp\fR.
.LP
If other configuration parameters are specified in the new syntax and style specified by this document, absence of the \fIprotocol\fR parameter implies manual configuration.
.LP
If no other configuration parameters are specified, or if those arguments are specified in the positional parameter syntax currently supported, the absence of the \fIprotocol\fR parameter causes the network boot support package to use the platform-specific default address
discovery protocol.
.LP
Manual configuration requires that the client be provided its IP address, the name of the boot file, and the address of the server providing the boot file image. Depending on the network configuration, it might be required that \fBsubnet-mask\fR and \fBrouter-ip\fR also
be specified.
.LP
If the \fIprotocol\fR argument is not specified, the network boot support package uses the platform-specific default address discovery protocol.
.LP
\fBtftp-server\fR is the IP address (in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation) of the TFTP server that provides the file to download if using TFTP.
.LP
When using DHCP, the value, if specified, overrides the value of the TFTP server specified in the DHCP response.
.LP
The TFTP RRQ is unicast to the server if one is specified as an argument or in the DHCP response. Otherwise, the TFTP RRQ is broadcast.
.LP
\fIfile\fR specifies the file to be loaded by TFTP from the TFTP server, or the URL if using HTTP. The use of HTTP is triggered if the file name is a URL, that is, the file name starts with \fBhttp:\fR (case-insensitive).
.LP
When using RARP and TFTP, the default file name is the ASCII hexadecimal representation of the IP address of the client, as documented in a preceding section of this document.
.LP
When using DHCP, this argument, if specified, overrides the name of the boot file specified in the DHCP response.
.LP
When using DHCP and TFTP, the default file name is constructed from the root node's \fBname\fR property, with commas (,) replaced by periods (.).
.LP
When specified on the command line, the filename must not contain slashes (\fB/\fR).
.LP
The format of URLs is described in RFC 2396. The HTTP server must be specified as an IP address (in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation). The optional port number is specified in decimal. If a port is not specified, port 80 (decimal) is implied.
.LP
The URL presented must be "safe-encoded", that is, the package does not apply escape encodings to the URL presented. URLs containing commas must be presented as a quoted string. Quoting URLs is optional otherwise.
.LP
\fBhost-ip\fR specifies the IP address (in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation) of the client, the system being booted. If using RARP as the address discovery protocol, specifying this argument makes use of RARP unnecessary.
.LP
If DHCP is used, specifying the \fBhost-ip\fR argument causes the client to follow the steps required of a client with an "Externally Configured Network Address", as specified in RFC 2131.
.LP
\fBrouter-ip\fR is the IP address (in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation) of a router on a directly connected network. The router will be used as the first hop for communications spanning networks. If this argument is supplied, the router specified here takes precedence over
the preferred router specified in the DHCP response.
.LP
\fBsubnet-mask\fR (specified in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation) is the subnet mask on the client's network. If the subnet mask is not provided (either by means of this argument or in the DHCP response), the default mask appropriate to the network class (Class A, B, or
C) of the address assigned to the booting client will be assumed.
.LP
\fBclient-id\fR specifies the unique identifier for the client. The DHCP client identifier is derived from this value. Client identifiers can be specified as:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The ASCII hexadecimal representation of the identifier, or
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a quoted string
.RE
.LP
Thus, \fBclient-id="openboot"\fR and \fBclient-id=6f70656e626f6f74\fR both represent a DHCP client identifier of 6F70656E626F6F74.
.LP
Identifiers specified on the command line must must not include slash (\fB/\fR) or spaces.
.LP
The maximum length of the DHCP client identifier is 32 bytes, or 64 characters representing 32 bytes if using the ASCII hexadecimal form. If the latter form is used, the number of characters in the identifier must be an even number. Valid characters are 0-9, a-f, and A-F.
.LP
For correct identification of clients, the client identifier must be unique among the client identifiers used on the subnet to which the client is attached. System administrators are responsible for choosing identifiers that meet this requirement.
.LP
Specifying a client identifier on a command line takes precedence over any other DHCP mechanism of specifying identifiers.
.LP
\fBhostname\fR (specified as a string) specifies the hostname to be used in DHCP transactions. The name might or might not be qualified with the local domain name. The maximum length of the hostname is 255 characters.
.LP
Note - 
.RS 2
The \fBhostname\fR parameter can be used in service environments that require that the client provide the desired hostname to the DHCP server. Clients provide the desired hostname to the DHCP server, which can then register the hostname and IP address assigned to the client
with DNS.
.RE
.LP
\fBhttp-proxy\fR is specified in the following standard notation for a host:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIhost\fR [":"" \fIport\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\&...where \fIhost\fR is specified as an IP ddress (in standard IPv4 dotted-decimal notation) and the optional \fIport\fR is specified in decimal. If a port is not specified, port 8080 (decimal) is implied.
.LP
\fBtftp-retries\fR is the maximum number of retries (specified in decimal) attempted before the TFTP process is determined to have failed. Defaults to using infinite retries.
.LP
\fBdhcp-retries\fR is the maximum number of retries (specified in decimal) attempted before the DHCP process is determined to have failed. Defaults to of using infinite retries.
.SS "x86 Bootstrap Procedure"
.LP
On x86 based systems, the bootstrapping process consists of two conceptually distinct phases, kernel loading and kernel initialization. Kernel loading is implemented in GRUB (GRand Unified Bootloader) using the BIOS ROM on the system board, and BIOS extensions in ROMs on peripheral
boards. The BIOS loads GRUB, starting with the first physical sector from a floppy disk, hard disk, DVD, or CD. If supported by the ROM on the network adapter, the BIOS can also download the \fBpxegrub\fR binary from a network boot server. Once GRUB is located, it executes a command
in a menu to load the \fBunix\fR kernel and a pre-constructed boot archive containing kernel modules and data.
.LP
Kernel initialization starts when GRUB finishes loading the boot archive and hands control over to the \fBunix\fR binary. At this point, GRUB becomes inactive and no more I/O occurs with the boot device. The  Unix operating system initializes, links in the necessary modules
from the boot archive and mounts the root filesystem on the real root device. At this point, the kernel regains storage I/O, mounts additional file systems (see \fBvfstab\fR(4)),
and starts various operating system services (see \fBsmf\fR(5)).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "SPARC"
.LP
The following SPARC options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The boot program interprets this flag to mean \fBask me\fR, and so it prompts for the name of the standalone. The \fB'\fR\fB-a\fR\fB'\fR flag is then passed to the standalone program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fIdefault-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Explicitly specify the \fIdefault-file\fR. On some systems, \fBboot\fR chooses a dynamic default file, used when none is otherwise specified. This option allows the \fIdefault-file\fR to be explicitly set and can be useful
when booting \fBkmdb\fR(1) since, by default, \fBkmdb\fR loads the default-file as exported by the \fBboot\fR program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Display verbose debugging information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIboot-flags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The boot program passes all \fIboot-flags\fR to \fBfile\fR. They are not interpreted by \fBboot\fR. See the \fBkernel\fR(1M) and \fBkmdb\fR(1) manual pages for information about the options available with the default standalone program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIclient-program-args\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The \fBboot\fR program passes all \fIclient-program-args\fR to \fIfile\fR. They are not interpreted by \fBboot\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Name of a standalone program to \fBboot\fR. If a filename is not explicitly specified, either on the \fBboot\fR command line or in the \fIboot-file\fR NVRAM variable, \fBboot\fR chooses an appropriate default filename.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIOBP\fR \fInames\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specify the open boot prom designations. For example, on Desktop SPARC based systems, the designation \fB/sbus/esp@0,800000/sd@3,0:a\fR indicates a \fBSCSI\fR disk (sd) at target 3, lun0 on the \fBSCSI\fR bus, with the esp host adapter plugged
into slot 0.
.RE

.SS "x86"
.LP
The following x86 options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIval\fR...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more property-value pairs to be passed to the kernel. Multiple property-value pairs must be separated by a comma. Use of this option is the equivalent of the command: \fBeeprom\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIval\fR. See \fBeeprom\fR(1M) for available properties and valid values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIboot-args\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The boot program passes all \fIboot-args\fR to \fBfile\fR. They are not interpreted by \fBboot\fR. See \fBkernel\fR(1M) and \fBkmdb\fR(1) for information about the options available with the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/$ISADIR/unix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the kernel to boot. When using the \fBkernel$\fR token, \fB$ISADIR\fR expands to \fBamd64\fR on 64-bit machines, and a null string on other machines. As a result of this dereferencing, this path expands to the proper kernel for the
machine.
.RE

.SH X86 BOOT SEQUENCE DETAILS
.LP
After a PC-compatible machine is turned on, the system firmware in the \fBBIOS ROM\fR executes a power-on self test (POST), runs \fBBIOS\fR extensions in peripheral board \fBROMs,\fR and invokes software interrupt INT 19h, Bootstrap. The INT 19h handler
typically performs the standard PC-compatible boot, which consists of trying to read the first physical sector from the first diskette drive, or, if that fails, from the first hard disk. The processor then jumps to the first byte of the sector image in memory.
.SH X86 PRIMARY BOOT
.LP
The first sector on a floppy disk contains the master boot block (GRUB \fBstage1\fR). The stage 1 is responsible for loading GRUB \fBstage2\fR. Now GRUB is fully functional. It reads and executes the menu file \fB/boot/grub/menu.lst\fR. A similar
sequence occurs for DVD or CD boot, but the master boot block location and contents are dictated by the El Torito specification. The El Torito boot also leads to \fBstrap.com\fR, which in turn loads \fBboot.bin\fR.
.LP
The first sector on a hard disk contains the master boot block, which contains the master boot program and the \fBFDISK\fR table, named for the \fBPC\fR program that maintains it. The master boot finds the active partition in the \fBFDISK\fR table,
loads its first sector (GRUB \fBstage1\fR), and jumps to its first byte in memory. This completes the standard PC-compatible hard disk boot sequence. If GRUB \fBstage1\fR is installed on the master boot block (see the \fB-m\fR option of \fBinstallgrub\fR(1M)), then \fBstage2\fR is loaded directly from the Solaris \fBFDISK\fR partition regardless of the active partition.
.LP
An x86 \fBFDISK\fR partition for the Solaris software begins with a one-cylinder boot slice, which contains GRUB \fBstage1\fR in the first sector, the standard Solaris disk label and volume table of contents (VTOC) in the second and third sectors, and GRUB \fBstage2\fR in the fiftieth and subsequent sectors. The area from sector 4 to 49 might contain boot blocks for older versions of Solaris. This makes it possible for multiple Solaris releases on the same FDISK to coexist. When the \fBFDISK\fR partition for the Solaris software
is the active partition, the master boot program (\fBmboot\fR) reads the partition boot program in the first sector into memory and jumps to it. It in turn reads GRUB \fBstage2\fR program into memory and jumps to it. Once the GRUB menu is displayed, the user can choose
to boot an operating system on a different partition, a different disk, or possibly from the network.
.LP
For network booting, the supported method is Intel's Preboot eXecution Environment (PXE) standard. When booting from the network using PXE, the system or network adapter BIOS uses DHCP to locate a network bootstrap program (\fBpxegrub\fR) on a boot server and reads it using
Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP). The BIOS executes the \fBpxegrub\fR by jumping to its first byte in memory. The \fBpxegrub\fR program downloads a menu file and presents the entries to user.
.SH X86 KERNEL STARTUP
.LP
The kernel startup process is independent of the kernel loading process. During kernel startup, console I/O goes to the device specified by the \fBconsole\fR property. The root device is specified by the \fBbootpath\fR property, and the root filesystem type is specified
by the \fBfstype\fR property. These properties should be setup by the Solaris Install/Upgrade process in \fB/boot/solaris/bootenv.rc\fR and can be overridden with the \fB-B\fR option, described above (see the \fBeeprom\fR(1M) man page). If the properties are not present, console I/O defaults to \fBscreen\fR and \fBkeyboard\fR. The root device defaults to \fBramdisk\fR and the filesystem defaults
to \fBufs\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "SPARC"
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRTo Boot the Default Kernel In Single-User Interactive Mode
.LP
To boot the default kernel in single-user interactive mode, respond to the \fBok\fR prompt with one of the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot\fR \fB\fR\fB-as\fR

\fBboot\fR \fBdisk3\fR \fB-as\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRNetwork Booting with WAN Boot-Capable PROMs
.LP
To illustrate some of the subtle repercussions of various boot command line invocations, assume that the \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR are set and that \fBnet\fR is devaliased as shown in the commands below.

.LP
In the following command, device arguments in the device alias are processed by the device driver. The network boot support package processes arguments in \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot net\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The command below results in no device arguments. The network boot support package processes arguments in \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot net:\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The command below results in no device arguments. \fBrarp\fR is the only network boot support package argument. \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR is ignored.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot net:rarp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
In the command below, the specified device arguments are honored. The network boot support package processes arguments in \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot net:speed=100,duplex=full\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing \fBwanboot\fR with Older PROMs
.LP
The command below results in the \fBwanboot\fR binary being loaded from DVD or CD, at which time \fBwanboot\fR will perform DHCP and then drop into its command interpreter to allow the user to enter keys and any other necessary configuration.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBboot cdrom -F wanboot -o dhcp,prompt\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "x86 (32-bit)"
.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRTo Boot the Default Kernel In 32-bit Single-User Interactive Mode
.LP
To boot the default kernel in single-user interactive mode, edit the GRUB kernel command line to read:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
kernel /platform/i86pc/kernel/unix -as
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "x86 (64-bit Only)"
.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRTo Boot the Default Kernel In 64-bit Single-User Interactive Mode
.LP
To boot the default kernel in single-user interactive mode, edit the GRUB kernel command line to read:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
kernel /platform/i86pc/kernel/amd64/unix -as
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRSwitching Between 32-bit and 64-bit Kernels on 64-bit x86 Platform
.LP
To be able to boot both 32-bit and 64-bit kernels, add entries for both kernels to \fB/boot/grub/menu.lst\fR, and use the \fBset-menu\fR subcommand of \fBbootadm\fR(1M) to switch. See \fBbootadm\fR(1M) for an example of the \fBbootadm set-menu\fR.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fR\fIplatform-name\fR\fB/ufsboot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Second-level program to boot from a disk, DVD, or CD
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inittab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table in which the \fBinitdefault\fR state is specified
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/sbin/init\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Program that brings the system to the \fBinitdefault\fR state
.RE

.SS "64-bit SPARC Only"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fR\fIplatform-name\fR\fB/kernel/sparcv9/unix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default program to boot system.
.RE

.SS "x86 Only"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/boot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory containing boot-related files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/boot/grub/menu.lst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Menu of bootable operating systems displayed by GRUB.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/unix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit kernel.
.RE

.SS "64-bit x86 Only"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/amd64/unix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit kernel.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkmdb\fR(1), \fBuname\fR(1), \fBbootadm\fR(1M), \fBeeprom\fR(1M), \fBinit\fR(1M), \fBinstallboot\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBmonitor\fR(1M), \fBshutdown\fR(1M), \fBuadmin\fR(2), \fBbootparams\fR(4), \fBinittab\fR(4), \fBvfstab\fR(4), \fBwanboot.conf\fR(4), \fBfilesystem\fR(5)
.LP
RFC 903, \fIA Reverse Address Resolution Protocol\fR, \fBhttp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc903.txt\fR
.LP
RFC 2131, \fIDynamic Host Configuration Protocol\fR, \fBhttp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2131.txt\fR
.LP
RFC 2132, \fIDHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions\fR, \fBhttp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2132.txt\fR
.LP
RFC 2396, \fIUniform Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax\fR, \fBhttp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt\fR
.LP
\fI\fR
.LP
\fISun Hardware Platform Guide\fR
.LP
\fIOpenBoot Command Reference Manual\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The \fBboot\fR utility is unable to determine which files can be used as bootable programs. If the booting of a file that is not bootable is requested, the \fBboot\fR utility loads it and branches to it. What happens after that is unpredictable.
.SH NOTES
.LP
\fIplatform-name\fR can be found using the \fB-i\fR option of \fBuname\fR(1). \fIhardware-class-name\fR can
be found using the \fB-m\fR option of \fBuname\fR(1).
.LP
The current release of the Solaris operating system does not support machines running an UltraSPARC-I CPU.
