'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (C) 2004  Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")  Copyright (C) 2000-2002  Internet Software Consortium.   Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any  purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above 
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ISC DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH  REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL ISC BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,  INDIRECT,
.\" OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM  LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE  OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR  PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH named-checkconf 1M "20 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
named-checkconf \- named configuration file syntax checking tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnamed-checkconf\fR [\fB-vjz\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIdirectory\fR] \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBnamed-checkconf\fR utility checks the syntax, but not the semantics, of a named configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Change the root directory to \fIdirectory\fR so that include directives in the configuration file are processed as if run by a named configuration whose root directory has been similarly changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Print the version of the \fBnamed-checkconf\fR program and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Perform a check load of the master zonefiles found in \fBnamed.conf\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When loading a zonefile, read the journal if it exists.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The name of the configuration file to be checked. If not specified, it defaults to \fB/etc/named.conf\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
No errors were detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error was detected.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWbind9
_
Interface StabilityExternal
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBnamed\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.LP
\fIBIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual\fR, available at the ISC web site.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Source for BIND9 is available in the \fBSUNWbind9S\fR package.
