'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH kernel 1M "22 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
kernel \- UNIX system executable file containing basic operating system services
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkernel-name\fR [\fB-asrvx\fR] [\fB-m \fIsmf_options\fR\fR] [\fB-i \fIaltinit\fR\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The operating system image, or kernel, is the collection of software comprising the image files (\fBunix\fR and \fBgenunix\fR) and the modules loaded at any instant in time. The system will not function without a kernel to control it.
.LP
The kernel is loaded by the \fBboot\fR(1M) command in a machine-specific way. The kernel may be loaded from disk, \fBCD-ROM\fR, or DVD (\fBdiskfull boot\fR)
or over the network (\fBdiskless boot\fR). In either case, the directories under \fB/platform\fR and \fB/kernel\fR must be readable and must contain executable code which is able to perform the required kernel service. If the \fB-a\fR flag is given,
the user is able to supply different pathnames for the default locations of the kernel and modules. See \fBboot\fR(1M) for more information on loading a specific kernel.
.LP
The \fBmoddir\fR variable contains a list of module directories separated by whitespace. moddir can be set in the \fB/etc/system\fR file. The minimal default is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/platform/platform-name/kernel /kernel /usr/kernel
.fi
.in -2

.LP
This default can be overridden by a specific platform. It is common for many SPARC systems to override the default path with:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/platform/\fIplatform-name\fR/kernel:/platform/\fIhardware-class-name\fR\e
    /kernel:/kernel:/usr/kernel
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
where \fIplatform-name\fR can be found using the \fB-i\fR option of \fBuname\fR(1), and \fIhardware-class-name\fR
can be found using the \fB-m\fR option of \fBuname\fR(1).
.LP
The kernel configuration can be controlled using the \fB/etc/system\fR file (see \fBsystem\fR(4)).
.LP
\fBgenunix\fR is the platform-independent component of the base kernel.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Asks the user for configuration information, such as where to find the system file, where to mount \fBroot\fR, and even override the name of the kernel itself. Default responses will be contained in square brackets ([
]), and the user may simply enter RETURN to use the default response (note that RETURN is labeled ENTER on some keyboards). To help repair a damaged \fB/etc/system\fR file, enter \fB/dev/null\fR at the prompt that asks for the pathname of the system configuration file. See \fBsystem\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIaltinit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Select an alternative executable to be the primordial Process. \fIaltinit\fR is a valid path to an executable. The default primordial process is \fBinit\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIsmf_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The \fIsmf_options\fR include two categories of options to control booting behavior of the service management facility: recovery options and messages options.
.sp
Message options determine the type and amount of messages that \fBsmf\fR(5) displays during boot. Service options determine the services which are used to boot the system. 
.sp
Recovery options
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdebug\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Prints standard per-service output and all \fBsvc.startd\fR messages to log.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImilestone=[milestone]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Boot to the subgraph defined by the given milestone. Legimate milestones are "none", "single-user", "multi-user", "multi-user-server", and "all".
.RE

Messages options
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIquiet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Prints standard per-service output and error messages requiring administrative intervention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIverbose\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Prints standard per-service output with more informational messages.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Reconfiguration boot. The system will probe all attached hardware devices and configure the logical namespace in \fB/dev\fR. See \fBadd_drv\fR(1M) and \fBrem_drv\fR(1M) for additional information about maintaining device drivers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Boots only to init level 's'. See \fBinit\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Boots with verbose messages enabled. If this flag is not given, the messages are still printed, but the output is directed to the system logfile. See \fBsyslogd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Does not boot in clustered mode. This option only has an effect when a version of Sun Cluster software that supports this option has been installed.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
See \fBboot\fR(1M) for examples and instructions on how to boot.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains kernel components common to all platforms within a particular instruction set that are needed for booting the system. of the core image file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fIplatform-name\fR/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The platform-specific kernel components.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/\fIhardware-class-name\fR\fR\fB/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The kernel components specific to this hardware class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/kernel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains kernel components common to all platforms within a particular instruction set.
.RE

.LP
The directories in this section can potentially contain the following subdirectories:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdrv\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Loadable device drivers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBexec\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The modules that execute programs stored in various file formats.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfs\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
File system modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmisc\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Miscellaneous system-related modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsched\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Operating system schedulers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBstrmod\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
System V STREAMS loadable modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsys\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Loadable system calls
.RE

.SS "SPARC"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcpu\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Processor specific modules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtod\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Time-Of-Day hardware interface modules
.RE

.LP
Additionally, some of the subdirectories mentioned above contain \fBsparcv9\fR subdirectories that contain 64-bit versions of the same module classes. For example, \fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9\fR and \fB/platform/sun4u/kernel/cpu/sparcv9\fR.
.SS "x86"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBmach\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
x86 hardware support
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcar, SUNWcarx
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBuname\fR(1), \fBisainfo\fR(1), \fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBboot\fR(1M), \fBinit\fR(1M), \fBkadb\fR(1M), \fBrem_drv\fR(1M), \fBsavecore\fR(1M), \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBsystem\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBdevfs\fR(7FS)
.SS "SPARC Only"
.LP
\fBmonitor\fR(1M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The kernel gives various warnings and error messages. If the kernel detects an unrecoverable fault, it will panic or halt.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Reconfiguration boot will, by design, not remove \fB/dev\fR entries for some classes of devices that have been physically removed from the system. 
