'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH rem_drv 1M "6 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rem_drv \- remove a device driver from the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrem_drv\fR [\fB-b\fR \fIbasedir\fR] \fIdevice_driver\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBrem_drv\fR command informs the system that the device driver \fIdevice_driver\fR is no longer valid. If possible, \fBrem_drv\fR unloads \fIdevice_driver\fR
from memory. \fBrem_drv\fR also updates the system driver configuration files.
.LP
If \fBrem_drv\fR has been executed, the next time the system is rebooted it automatically performs a reconfiguration boot (see \fBkernel\fR(1M)).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-b\fR\fB \fR\fIbasedir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Sets the path to the root directory of the diskless client. Used on the server to execute \fBrem_drv\fR for a client. The client machine must be rebooted to unload
the driver.
.LP
Note - 
.RS 2
The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with the \fB-b\fR option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system, might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the non-global zone's file system. See \fBzones\fR(5).
.RE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRemoving the \fBsd\fR Driver
.LP
The following example removes the \fBsd\fR driver from use:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rem_drv sd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRemoving a Diskless Client
.LP
The following example removes the driver from the \fBsun1\fR diskless client. The driver is not uninstalled or unloaded until the client machine is rebooted.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rem_drv \fB-b\fR /export/root/sun1 sd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
Note the caveat on the use of the \fB-b\fR option in the description of that option, above.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdevfs\fR(7FS)
