'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved.
.TH atrm 1 "13 Aug 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
atrm \- remove jobs spooled by at or batch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBatrm\fR [\fB-afi\fR] [ [\fIjob\fR \fI#\fR] [\fIuser\fR]...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBatrm\fR utility removes delayed-execution jobs that were created with the \fBat\fR(1) command, but have not yet executed. The list of these jobs and associated job numbers can
be displayed by using \fBatq\fR(1).
.LP
\fBatrm\fR removes each job-number you specify, and/or all jobs belonging to the user you specify, provided that you own the indicated jobs.
.LP
You can only remove jobs belonging to other users if you have \fBsolaris.jobs.admin\fR privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All. Removes all unexecuted jobs that were created by the current user. If invoked by the privileged user, the entire queue will be flushed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Force.  All information regarding the  removal of the specified jobs is suppressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Interactive. \fBatrm\fR asks if a job should be removed. If you respond with a \fBy\fR, the job will be removed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/cron/atjobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
spool area for at jobs
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBatq\fR(1), \fBauths\fR(1), \fBcron\fR(1M), \fBauth_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
