'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH print 1 "15 Apr 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
print \- shell built-in function to output characters to the screen or window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBprint\fR [\fB-Rnprsu\fR [\fIn\fR]] [\fIarg\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "ksh"
.LP
The shell output mechanism. With no flags or with flag \fB\(mi\fR or \fB-\fR, the arguments are printed on standard output as described by \fBecho\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
suppresses \fBnew-line\fR from being added to the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
(raw mode) ignore the escape conventions of \fBecho\fR. The \fB-R\fR option will print all subsequent arguments and options
other than \fB-n\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
causes the arguments to be written onto the pipe of the process spawned with \fB|&\fR instead of standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
causes the arguments to be written onto the history file instead of standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR [ \fIn\fR ]\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
flag can be used to specify a one digit file descriptor unit number \fIn\fR on which the
output will be placed. The default is 1.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Output file is not open for writing.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBecho\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
