'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software
.\" License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH gettimeofday 3UCB "18 Feb 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gettimeofday, settimeofday \- get or set the date and time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR[ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ...
#include <sys/time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgettimeofday\fR(\fB\fR \fItp\fR, \fB\fR \fItzp\fRstruct timeval *\fItzp\fR;
struct timezone *\fItzp\fR;
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsettimeofday\fR(\fB\fR \fItp\fR, \fB\fR \fItzp\fRstruct timeval *\fItzp\fR;
struct timezone *\fItzp\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The system's notion of the current Greenwich time is obtained with the \fBgettimeofday()\fR call, and set with the \fBsettimeofday()\fR call. The current time is expressed
in elapsed seconds and microseconds since 00:00 \fBGMT,\fR January 1, 1970 (zero hour). The resolution of the system clock is hardware dependent; the time may be updated continuously,
or in clock ticks.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
long	tv_sec;	   /* seconds since Jan. 1, 1970 */
long	tv_usec;  	/* and microseconds */
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fItp\fR points to a \fBtimeval\fR structure, which includes the following members:
.LP
If \fItp\fR is a \fINULL\fR pointer, the current time information is not returned or set.
.LP
\fItzp\fR is an obsolete pointer formerly used to get and set timezone information. \fItzp\fR is now ignored. Timezone information is now handled using the TZ environment variable; see \fBTIMEZONE\fR(4).
.LP
Only the privileged user may set the time of day.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
A \fB \(mi1\fR return value indicates an error occurred; in this case an error code is stored in the global variable \fBerrno\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The following error codes may be set in \fBerrno\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fItp\fR specifies an invalid time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
A user other than the privileged user attempted to set the time.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBadjtime\fR(2), \fBctime\fR(3C), \fBgettimeofday\fR(3C), \fBTIMEZONE\fR(4)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.LP
\fItzp\fR is ignored in SunOS 5.\fIX\fR releases.
.LP
\fBtv_usec\fR is always 0.
