'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software
.\" License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH syscall 3UCB "22 Jan 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
syscall \- indirect system call
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ...
#include <sys/syscall.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsyscall\fR(\fB\fR\fInumber\fR, \fB\fR \fIarg\fR, \fB\fR \fI\&...\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBsyscall()\fR performs the function whose assembly language interface has the specified \fInumber\fR, and arguments \fIarg .\|.\|.\fR.
Symbolic constants for functions can be found in the header \fB<sys/syscall.h>\fR\&.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On error \fBsyscall()\fR returns \(mi1 and sets the external variable \fBerrno\fR (see \fBintro\fR(2)).
.SH FILES
.LP
\fB<sys/syscall.h>\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBintro\fR(2), \fBpipe\fR(2)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written on BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries or in multi-thread applications is unsupported.
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
There is no way to use \fBsyscall()\fR to call functions such as \fBpipe\fR(2) which return values that do not fit into one hardware register.
.LP
Since many system calls are implemented as library wrappers around traps to the kernel, these calls may not behave as documented when called from \fBsyscall()\fR, which bypasses these
wrappers. For these reasons, using \fBsyscall()\fR is not recommended.
