'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH let 1 "15 Apr 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
let \- shell built-in function to evaluate one or more arithmetic expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBlet\fR \fIarg\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "ksh"
.LP
Each \fIarg\fR is a separate "arithmetic expression" to be evaluated.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
The value of the last expression is non-zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
The value of the last expression is zero.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1), \fBtypeset\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
