'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH ppriv 1 "15 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ppriv \- inspect or modify process privilege sets and attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ppriv\fR \fB-e\fR [\fB-D\fR | \fB-N\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIspec\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIarg\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ppriv\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-D\fR | \fB-N\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIspec\fR] 
    [\fIpid\fR | \fIcore\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ppriv\fR \fB-l\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIprivilege-specification\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The first invocation of the \fBppriv\fR command runs the \fIcommand\fR specified with the privilege sets and flags modified according to the arguments on the command line.
.LP
The second invocation examines or changes the privilege state of running process and core files.
.LP
The third invocation lists the privileges defined and information about specified privileges or privileges set specifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Turns on privilege debugging for the processes or command supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Interprets the remainder of the arguments as a command line and runs the command line with specified privilege attributes and sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Lists all currently defined privileges on stdout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Turns off privilege debugging for the processes or command supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIspec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Modifies a process's privilege sets according to \fIspec\fR, a specification with the format [AEILP][+-=]\fIprivsetspec\fR, containing no spaces, where:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAEILP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Indicates one or more letters indicating which privilege sets to change. These are case insensitive, for example, either \fBa\fR or \fBA\fR indicates all privilege sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB+-=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Indicates a modifier to respectively add (\fB+\fR), remove (\fB-\fR), or assign (\fB=\fR) the listed privileges to the specified set(s) in \fIprivsetspec\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprivsetspec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Indicates a comma-separated privilege set specification (\fBpriv1\fR,\fBpriv2\fR, and so on), as described in \fBpriv_str_to_set\fR(3C).
.RE

Modifying the same set with multiple \fB-s\fR options is possible as long as there is either precisely one assignment to an individual set or any number of additions and removals. That is, assignment and addition or removal for one set are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Short. Reports the shortest possible output strings for sets. The default is portable output. See \fBpriv_str_to_set\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Verbose. Reports privilege sets using privilege names.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBppriv\fR utility examines processes and core files and prints or changes their privilege sets.
.LP
\fBppriv\fR can run commands with privilege debugging on or off or with fewer privileges than the invoking process.
.LP
When executing a sub process, the only sets that can be modified are \fBL\fR and \fBI\fR. Privileges can only be removed from \fBL\fR and \fBI\fR as \fBppriv\fR starts with \fBP=E=I\fR.
.LP
\fBppriv\fR can also be used to remove privileges from processes or to convey privileges to other processes. In order to control a process, the effective set of the \fBppriv\fR utility must be a super set of the controlled process's \fBE\fR, \fBI\fR,
and \fBP\fR. The utility's limit set must be a super set of the target's limit set. If the target's process uids do not match, the \fB{PRIV_PROC_OWNER}\fR privilege must be asserted in the utility's effective set. If the controlled processes have any uid with the value \fB0\fR, more restrictions may exist. See \fBprivileges\fR(5).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRObtaining the Process Privileges of the Current Shell
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBppriv $$\fR
387:   -sh
flags = <none>
        E: basic
        I: basic
        P: basic
        L: all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRemoving a Privilege From Your Shell's Inheritable and Effective set
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBppriv -s EI-proc_session $$\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The subprocess can still inspect the parent shell but it can no longer influence the parent because the parent has more privileges in its Permitted set than the \fBppriv\fR child process:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBtruss -p $$\fR
truss: permission denied: 387

example$ \fBppriv $$\fR
387:   -sh
flags = <none>
        E: basic,!proc_session
        I: basic,!proc_session
        P: basic
        L: all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRRunning a Process with Privilege Debugging
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBppriv -e -D cat /etc/shadow\fR
cat[418]: missing privilege "file_dac_read" (euid = 21782),
                   needed at ufs_access+0x3c
cat: cannot open /etc/shadow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
The privilege debugging error messages are sent to the controlling terminal of the current process. The "\fBneeded at\fR" address specification is an artifact of the kernel implementation and it can be changed at any time after a software update.

.LP
The system call number can be mapped to a system call using \fB/etc/name_to_sysnum\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRListing the Privileges Available in the Current Zone
.LP
This example lists the privileges available in the current zone (see \fBzones\fR(5)). When run in the global zone, all defined privileges are listed.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBppriv -l zone\fR
... listing of all privileges elided ...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRExamining a Privilege Aware Process
.LP
The following example examines a privilege aware process:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBppriv -S `pgrep rpcbind`\fR


928:    /usr/sbin/rpcbind
flags = PRIV_AWARE
       E: net_privaddr,proc_fork,sys_nfs
       I: none
       P: net_privaddr,proc_fork,sys_nfs
       L: none
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
See \fBsetpflags\fR(2) for explanations of the flags.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/proc/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Process files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/name_to_sysnum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
system call name to number mapping
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.LP
The invocation is Evolving. The output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBgcore\fR(1), \fBtruss\fR(1), \fBsetpflags\fR(2), \fBpriv_str_to_set\fR(3C), \fBproc\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
