'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.TH tran_quiesce 9e "31 Jan 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
tran_quiesce, tran_unquiesce \- quiesce and unquiesce a SCSI bus
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>

\fB int prefix\fR\fBtran_quiesce\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*hba_dip\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint prefix\fR\fBtran_unquiesce\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fI*hba_dip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Solaris DDI
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhba_dip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The \fBdev_info_t\fR
pointer associated with the SCSI HBA.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The  \fBtran_quiesce()\fR and  \fBtran_unquiesce()\fR vectors in the \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR(9S)
structure should be initialized during the HBA driver's  \fBattach\fR(9E). They are HBA entry points
to be called when a user initiates quiesce and unquiesce operations through
device control interfaces.
.LP
\fBtran_quiesce()\fR should wait for all outstanding
commands to complete and blocks (or queues) any I/O requests issued. \fBtran_unquiesce()\fR should allow I/O activities to resume on the SCSI
bus.
.LP
Implementation is hardware specific.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
\fBtran_quiesce()\fR and \fBtran_unquiesce()\fR
should return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
on failure.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)
for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
Stability LevelEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBtran_bus_reset\fR(9E), \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR(9S) 
