'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright 2000 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved. 
.TH getdmapent 3BSM "11 Jan 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Security and Auditing Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getdmapent, getdmapnam, getdmaptype, getdmaptdev, setdmapent, enddmapent, setdmapfile \- get device_maps entry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc \fR  [\fIflag\fR]... \fIfile\fR... \fB-lbsm\fR  [\fIlibrary\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <bsm/devices.h>

\fBdevmap_t *\fR\fBgetdmapent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdevmap_t *\fR\fBgetdmapnam\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdevmap_t *\fR\fBgetdmapdev\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdevmap_t *\fR\fBgetdmaptype\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fItype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetdmapent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBenddmapent\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetdmapfile\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIfile\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetdmapent()\fR, \fBgetdmapnam()\fR, \fBgetdmapdev()\fR, and \fBgetdmaptype()\fR functions each return a \fBdevice_deallocate\fR entry. The \fBgetdmapent()\fR function enumerates all \fBdevice_maps\fR
entries. The \fBgetdmaptype()\fR function enumerates \fBdevice_maps\fR entries with a given device type. Successive calls to these functions return either successive \fBdevice_maps\fR entries or \fINULL\fR. The \fBgetdmapnam()\fR
function searches for a \fBdevice_maps\fR entry with a given device allocation name. The \fBgetdmapdev()\fR function searches for a \fBdevice_maps\fR entry containing a given device special file.
.LP
The internal representation of a \fBdevice_maps\fR entry is a \fBdevmap_t\fR structure defined in <\fBbsm/devices.h\fR> with the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *dmap_devname;     /* device allocation name */
char *dmap_devtype;     /* generic device type */
char *dmap_devlist;     /* list of associated device special files */
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The \fBsetdmapent()\fR function "rewinds" to the beginning of the enumeration of \fBdevice_maps\fR entries. Calls to \fBgetdmapnam()\fR may leave the enumeration in an indeterminate state, so \fBsetdmapent()\fR should be called before
the first call to \fBgetdmapent()\fR or \fBgetdmaptype()\fR.
.LP
The \fBenddmapent()\fR function can be called to indicate that \fBdevice_maps\fR processing is complete. The library can then close any open \fBdevice_maps\fR file, deallocate any internal storage, and so forth. 
.LP
The \fBsetdmapfile()\fR function changes the pathname used by the other functions for opening the \fBdevice_maps\fR file, allowing use of \fBdevice_maps\fR files other than the default file, \fB/etc/security/device_maps\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
The \fBgetdmapent()\fR and \fBgetdmaptype()\fR functions return a pointer to a \fBdevmap_t\fR if they successfully enumerate an entry. Otherwise they return \fINULL\fR, indicating the end of the enumeration.
.LP
The \fBgetdmapnam()\fR function returns a pointer to a \fBdevmap_t\fR if it successfully locates the requested entry. Otherwise it returns \fINULL\fR.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/device_maps\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Administrative file defining the mapping of device special files to allocatable device names.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBallocate\fR(1), \fBfree\fR(3C), \fBdevice_maps\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBgetdmapent()\fR, \fBgetdmapnam()\fR, \fBgetdmapdev()\fR, and \fBgetdmaptype()\fR functions allocate memory for the pointers they return. This memory can be deallocated with the \fBfree\fR(3C) function.
