'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.TH libcontract 3LIB "19 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libcontract \- contract management
library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] `getconf LFS_CFLAGS` \fIfile\fR... \fB-lcontract\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBlibcontract.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide various interfaces to interact with the \fBcontract\fR(4) file system. The header provides structure and function declarations
for all library interfaces.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibcontract.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBct_ctl_abandon\fR\fBct_ctl_ack\fR
\fBct_ctl_adopt\fR\fBct_ctl_newct\fR
\fBct_ctl_qack\fR\fBct_event_free\fR
\fBct_event_get_ctid\fR\fBct_event_get_evid\fR
\fBct_event_get_flags\fR\fBct_event_get_nevid\fR
\fBct_event_get_newct\fR\fBct_event_get_type\fR
\fBct_event_read\fR\fBct_event_read_critical\fR
\fBct_event_reliable\fR\fBct_event_reset\fR
\fBct_pr_event_get_exitstatus\fR\fBct_pr_event_get_gcorefile\fR
\fBct_pr_event_get_pcorefile\fR\fBct_pr_event_get_pid\fR
\fBct_pr_event_get_ppid\fR\fBct_pr_event_get_sender\fR
\fBct_pr_event_get_senderct\fR\fBct_pr_event_get_signal\fR
\fBct_pr_event_get_zcorefile\fR\fBct_pr_status_get_contracts\fR
\fBct_pr_status_get_fatal\fR\fBct_pr_status_get_members\fR
\fBct_pr_status_get_param\fR\fBct_pr_tmpl_get_fatal\fR
\fBct_pr_tmpl_get_param\fR\fBct_pr_tmpl_get_transfer\fR
\fBct_pr_tmpl_set_fatal\fR\fBct_pr_tmpl_set_param\fR
\fBct_pr_tmpl_set_transfer\fR\fBct_status_free\fR
\fBct_status_get_cookie\fR\fBct_status_get_critical\fR
\fBct_status_get_holder\fR\fBct_status_get_id\fR
\fBct_status_get_informative\fR\fBct_status_get_nevents\fR
\fBct_status_get_nevid\fR\fBct_status_get_ntime\fR
\fBct_status_get_qtime\fR\fBct_status_get_state\fR
\fBct_status_get_type\fR\fBct_status_get_zoneid\fR
\fBct_status_read\fR\fBct_tmpl_activate\fR
\fBct_tmpl_clear\fR\fBct_tmpl_create\fR
\fBct_tmpl_get_cookie\fR\fBct_tmpl_get_critical\fR
\fBct_tmpl_get_informative\fR\fBct_tmpl_set_cookie\fR
\fBct_tmpl_set_critical\fR\fBct_tmpl_set_informative\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libcontract.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libcontract.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBintro\fR(3), \fBcontract\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlfcompile\fR(5)
