'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH librt 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
librt, libposix4 \- POSIX.1b Realtime Extensions library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lrt\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide most of the interfaces specified by the POSIX.1b Realtime Extension.  See \fBstandards\fR(5). Specifically, this includes the interfaces defined under the Asynchronous I/O, Message Passing, Process Scheduling, Realtime Signals Extension, Semaphores,
Shared Memory Objects, Synchronized I/O, and Timers options. The interfaces defined under the Memory Mapped Files, Process Memory Locking, and Range Memory Locking options are provided in \fBlibc\fR(3LIB).
.LP
See the man pages for the individual interfaces in section 3RT for information on required headers.
.LP
The name \fBlibposix4\fR is maintained for backward compatibility and should be avoided. \fBlibrt\fR is the preferred name for this library.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared objects \fBlibrt.so.1\fR and \fBlibposix4.so.1\fR provide the public interfaces defined below. See \fBintro\fR(3) for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBaio_cancel\fR\fBaio_error\fR
\fBaio_fsync\fR\fBaio_read\fR
\fBaio_return\fR\fBaio_suspend\fR
\fBaio_waitn\fR\fBaio_write\fR
\fBclock_getres\fR\fBclock_gettime\fR
\fBclock_nanosleep\fR\fBclock_settime\fR
\fBclose\fR\fBfdatasync\fR
\fBfork\fR\fBlio_listio\fR
\fBmq_close\fR\fBmq_getattr\fR
\fBmq_notify\fR\fBmq_open\fR
\fBmq_receive\fR\fBmq_reltimedreceive_np\fR
\fBmq_reltimedsend_np\fR\fBmq_send\fR
\fBmq_setattr\fR\fBmq_timedreceive\fR
\fBmq_timedsend\fR\fBmq_unlink\fR
\fBnanosleep\fR\fBsched_get_priority_max\fR
\fBsched_get_priority_min\fR\fBsched_getparam\fR
\fBsched_getscheduler\fR\fBsched_rr_get_interval\fR
\fBsched_setparam\fR\fBsched_setscheduler\fR
\fBsched_yield\fR\fBsem_close\fR
\fBsem_destroy\fR\fBsem_getvalue\fR
\fBsem_init\fR\fBsem_open\fR
\fBsem_post\fR\fBsem_reltimedwait_np\fR
\fBsem_timedwait\fR\fBsem_trywait\fR
\fBsem_unlink\fR\fBsem_wait\fR
\fBshm_open\fR\fBshm_unlink\fR
\fBsigqueue\fR\fBsigtimedwait\fR
\fBsigwaitinfo\fR\fBtimer_create\fR
\fBtimer_delete\fR\fBtimer_getoverrun\fR
\fBtimer_gettime\fR\fBtimer_settime\fR
.TE

.LP
The following interfaces are unique to the 32-bit version of this library:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBaio_cancel64\fR\fBaio_error64\fR
\fBaio_fsync64\fR\fBaio_read64\fR
\fBaio_return64\fR\fBaio_suspend64\fR
\fBaio_waitn64\fR\fBaio_write64\fR
\fBlio_listio64\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/librt.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/librt.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
64-bit shared object file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libposix4.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libposix4.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
64-bit shared object file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsl (32-bit)
_
SUNWcslx (64-bit)
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBintro\fR(3), \fBlibc\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5) 
