'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH dlpi_send 3DLPI "19 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Link Provider Interface Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dlpi_send \- send a data message using DLPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fIdlpi_send\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIdaddrp\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR
    \fBconst void *\fR\fImsgbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fImsglen\fR, \fBconst dlpi_sendinfo_t *\fR\fIsendp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdlpi_send()\fR function attempts to send \fImsglen\fR bytes from \fImsgbuf\fR over the \fBDLPI\fR link instance associated with \fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR. An attempt fails if \fIdh\fR is
not in the \fBDL_IDLE\fR \fBDLPI\fR state, if the address named by \fIdaddrp\fR is invalid, or if \fImsglen\fR is outside the valid range. See \fBdlpi_info\fR(3DLPI).
.LP
The \fIdlpi_sendinfo_t\fR is a structure defined in \fB<libdlpi.h>\fR as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct {
       uint_t          dsi_sap;
       dl_priority_t   dsi_prio;
} dlpi_sendinfo_t;
.fi
.in -2

.LP
If \fIsendp\fR is set to \fINULL\fR, data is sent over the bound \fBSAP\fR address associated with \fIdh\fR and the default priority range is used. Otherwise, data is sent using \fIdsi_sap\fR value and
priority range is used as described below. The \fBSAP\fR value that \fIdh\fR is bound to can be retrieved using \fBdlpi_info\fR(3DLPI).
.LP
If the \fIdsi_prio\fR fields are set to \fBDL_QOS_DONT_CARE\fR, the default priority range is used. Otherwise, the specified \fIdsi_prio\fR priority range is used, with a value of zero being the highest and \fB100\fR being the lowest
priority.
.LP
If the handle is in raw mode, as described in \fBdlpi_open\fR(3DLPI), the \fImsgbuf\fR must start with the link-layer header. See \fBdlpi\fR(7P). The contents of \fIdaddrp\fR and \fIsendp\fR is ignored, as it is already specified by the link-layer header in \fImsgbuf\fR.
.LP
If \fImsgbuf\fR is accepted for delivery, no error is returned. A successful return does not guarantee that data is delivered to \fIdaddrp\fR because only \fBDL_CLDLS\fR, an unacknowledged connectionless service, is currently supported.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned, \fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a \fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or
an error value listed in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Invalid argument
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdlpi_bind\fR(3DLPI), \fBdlpi_info\fR(3DLPI), \fBdlpi_open\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
