'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.TH wrsm 7D "17 Nov 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
wrsm \- WCI Remote Shared Memory (WRSM)
device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwci@<slot>,0:wrsm\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsm@<instance>:ctrl\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwrsm@ffff,0:admin\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwrsm\fR driver is a nexus driver that manages Sun Fire Link devices
and \fBwrsm\fR controllers.
.LP
A WCI device on a Sun Fire Link board is attached directly to the host
system bus and provides clustering communication between Solaris instances
that are memory transaction-based. The WCI acts as a memory controller on
the system backplane. The \fBwrsm\fR driver programs registers
on the WCI to accept network read/write requests on certain exported cluster
addresses from incoming links. The registers translate the requests into local
read/write bus transactions that use local physical memory ranges that you
specify. The driver programs additional WCI registers to forward local system
backplane read/write transactions within a particular physical address range
to a remote WCI.  A WCI device in the format \fBwci@slot,0:wrsm\fR
appears in the device tree.
.LP
A \fBwrsm\fR controller is a pseudo device that manages
a set of WCIs. A device entry in the format \fBwrsm@<instance>:ctrl\fR appears in the device tree.  A \fBwrsm\fR controller
presents a Sun proprietary protocol to clients, enabling them to set up the
network and to communicate through the WCIs. To configure a \fBwrsm\fR controller, you download a configuration into the driver using
the \fBwrsmconf\fR(1M)
command or through other external WCI network management software. Status
information on each WCI and \fBwrsm\fR controller is available
by using the \fBwrsmstat\fR(1M)
command.
.LP
The \fBwrsm\fR admin device is used internally by the driver
to manage the I/O addresses associated with remote memory. A device entry
in the format \fBwrsm@ffff,0:admin\fR appears in the device tree
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/platform/sun4u/kernel/drv/sparcv9/wrsm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBwrsmconf\fR(1M), \fBwrsmstat\fR(1M)
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The messages described below may appear on the system console as well
as being logged. These messages generally include the string \fBwrsm%d\fR, where \fB%d\fR is the instance number of the \fBwrsm\fR device.  The message context indicates whether the device is
a WCI or a \fBwrsm\fR controller.  Some messages include the
string \fBwci %a\fR, where \fB%a\fR is the bus slot
of the WCI device.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwrsm%d: unable to map register set %d\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Driver was unable to map device registers; check for bad hardware. 
Driver did not attach device, device will be inaccessible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwrsm_detach:cf_remove_controller failed for wrsm%d\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Driver did not detach device; device is inaccessible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwrsm_detach:cf_remove_wci failed for wrsm%d\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Driver did not detach device. This WCI is the last WCI in \fBwrsm\fR controller.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBregister_controller of wrsm%d failed with error %d\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBwrsm\fR controller could not register
with the Sun proprietary protocol framework. Communication is not possible
through this controller.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwrsm%d, wci %a, SRAM CE ERROR, at address: 0x%x, syndrome:
0x%x\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There was a correctable error in the WCI's SRAM.
This indicates that the memory on this WCI module should be replaced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBwrsm%d, wci %a, SRAM UE ERROR, at address: 0x%x, syndrome:
0x%x\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There was an uncorrectable error in the WCI's SRAM.
This indicates that the memory on this WCI module should be replaced. In addition,
attempts to access local memory from remote nodes may fail.
.RE

