'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T  
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH Intro 5 "30 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
Intro, intro \- introduction to miscellany
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Among the topics presented in this section are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBStandards\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The POSIX (IEEE) Standards and the X/Open Specifications are described on the \fBstandards\fR page. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBEnvironments\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The user environment (\fBenviron\fR), the subset of the user environment that depends on language and cultural conventions (\fBlocale\fR), the large file compilation environment (\fBlfcompile\fR), and the transitional
compilation environment (\fBlfcompile64\fR) are described.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBMacros\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The macros to format Reference Manual pages (\fBman\fR and \fBmansun\fR) as well as other text format macros (\fBme\fR, \fBmm\fR, and \fBms\fR) are described.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCharacters\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Tables of character sets (\fBascii\fR, \fBcharmap\fR, \fBeqnchar\fR, and \fBiconv\fR), file format notation (\fBformats\fR), file name pattern matching (\fBfnmatch\fR), and
regular expressions (\fBregex\fR and \fBregexp\fR) are presented.
.RE

