'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH pam_unix_auth 5 "2 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_unix_auth \- PAM authentication
module for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpam_unix_auth.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpam_unix_auth\fR module implements \fBpam_sm_authenticate()\fR, which provides functionality to the PAM authentication stack.
It provides functions to verify that the password contained in the \fBPAM\fR item \fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR is the correct password
for the user specified in the item \fBPAM_USER\fR. If \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR is specified, then user's passwd is fetched
from that repository. Otherwise, the default \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) repository is searched for
that user. For accounts in the name services which support automatic account
locking, the account may be configured to be automatically locked (see \fBuser_attr\fR(4) and \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4))
after multiple failed login attempts. If the number of successive failures
equals or exceeds \fBRETRIES\fR, the account is locked and \fBPAM_MAXTRIES\fR is returned. Currently, only the "files"
repository (see \fBpasswd\fR(4)
and \fBshadow\fR(4)) supports
automatic account locking. A successful authentication by this module clears
the failed login counter and reports the number of failed attempts since the
last successful authentication.
.LP
Authentication service modules must implement both \fBpam_sm_authenticate()\fR and \fBpam_sm_setcred()\fR. To allow replacability
of the authentication portion of UNIX authentication, \fBpam_sm_setcred()\fR in this module always returns \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR.
This module should be stacked with \fBpam_unix_cred\fR(5)
to ensure a successful return from \fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM).
.LP
The following options can be passed to the module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnowarn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Turn off
warning messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBserver_policy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
If the account authority for the user, as specified by \fBPAM_USER\fR,
is a server, do not apply the Unix policy from the passwd entry in the name
service switch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnolock\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Regardless
of the automatic account locking setting for the account, do not lock the
account, increment or clear the failed login count. The \fBnolock\fR
option allows for exempting account locking on a per service basis.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.LP
The following error codes are returned from \fBpam_sm_authenticate()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTH_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Authentication failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_BUF_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Memory buffer error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_IGNORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Ignores module, not participating in result.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_MAXTRIES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Maximum number of retries exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_PERM_DENIED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Permission denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Successfully obtains authentication token.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SYSTEM_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
System error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
No account present for user.
.RE

.LP
The following error codes are returned from \fBpam_sm_setcred()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_IGNORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Ignores this module regardless of the control flag.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlogin\fR(1), \fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBuseradd\fR(1M), \fBusermod\fR(1M), \fBroleadd\fR(1M), \fBrolemod\fR(1M), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB), \fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBshadow\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_dhkeys\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_account\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_session\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB)
are MT-Safe only if each thread within the multi-threaded application uses
its own \fBPAM\fR handle.
.LP
The \fBpam_unix\fR(5) module is no longer supported. Similar functionality
is provided by \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_dhkeys\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5),\fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_unix_account\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_cred\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_session\fR(5).
.LP
If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR
is set and a service module does not recognize the type, the service module
does not process any information, and returns \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR.
If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR
is not set, a service module performs its default action.
