'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.TH smf_bootstrap 5 "27 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
smf_bootstrap \- service management facility boot, packaging, and compatibility
behavior
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The service management facility establishes conventions for delivering
service manifests, incorporating service manifest changes, describing service
configuration stability, using service configuration overrides, and the use
of service profiles.
.SS "Manifest loading at boot"
.LP
The \fBsvc:/system/manifest-import:default\fR service uses \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) to
import certain manifest files from the \fB/var/svc/manifest\fR
directory tree into the service configuration repository. The service imports
files that it has not imported previously and those files which
have changed since the last time they were imported by the service. When a
manifest is imported by the service, a hash of the file that includes its
contents is recorded in a property group of the \fBsvc:/smf/manifest\fR service. The \fBmanifest-import\fR service uses the
hash to determine whether the file has changed. See \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) for information on the \fBsvccfg import\fR behavior for services that already exist in the repository.
.SS "Manifest handling during packaging operations"
.LP
Service manifests within packages are identified with the class \fBmanifest\fR. Class action scripts that install and remove service manifests
are included in the packaging subsystem. When \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) is invoked, the service manifest
is imported.
.LP
When \fBpkgrm\fR(1M)
is invoked, instances in the manifest that are disabled are deleted. Any services
in the manifest with no remaining instances are also deleted.
.SS "Stability declarations"
.LP
Each service group and each property group delivered in a manifest should
declare a stability level based on \fBattributes\fR(5)
definitions. With knowledge of the stability level, an application developer
can determine the likelihood that feature development based on the existence
or components of a service or object is likely to remain functional across
a release boundary.
.LP
In an \fBsmf\fR(5) context, the stability value
also identifies the expected scope of the changes to properties within the
property group across a release boundary for the service, which can include
patches for that service. The following two sections discuss this in more
detail.
.SS "Property overrides"
.LP
The \fBservice_bundle\fR(4)
document type definition includes an override attribute that is applicable
to each property in a service manifest. If set to \fBtrue\fR,
the attribute instructs \fBsvccfg\fR(1M)
and other manifest import tools to replace the current value of a property
in the repository with the one from the manifest. If the override attribute
is absent or present but set to \fBfalse\fR, the current value
in the repository is preserved.
.LP
Property groups declared as Stable do not contain override attributes
on enclosed properties. Property groups declared as Evolving do so only to
correct an erroneous setting. Property groups declared as Unstable can contain
overrides on any property. The exception to this behavior is for the stability
property itself, which can be modified to identify incipient change to the
interface presented by the service.
.SS "Property group deletion"
.LP
The \fBservice_bundle\fR(4)
document type definition includes a delete attribute, applicable to each property
group in a service manifest. If set to \fBtrue\fR, the delete
attribute instructs \fBsvccfg\fR(1M)
and other manifest import tools to delete this property group from the repository.
If the delete attribute is absent or present but set to \fBfalse\fR,
the property group in the repository is preserved.
.LP
Property groups declared as Stable or Evolving are not deleted. Property
groups declared as Unstable can be deleted across any release boundary.
.SS "Profile application"
.LP
The first time the existence of each of the three service profiles listed
below is detected, \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M)
automatically applies the profile.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/var/svc/profile/generic.xml
/var/svc/profile/platform.xml
/var/svc/profile/site.xml
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The \fBsvc:/smf/manifest\fR service is used in a similar
fashion.
.LP
Additional service profiles that characterize the activation of various
groups of service instances might be present in \fB/var/svc/profile\fR. None of the \fB/var/svc/profile\fR profiles are
automatically applied to the repository. A profile can be manually applied
or re-applied using \fBsvccfg\fR(1M).
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpkgadd\fR(1M), \fBpkgrm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBlibscf\fR(3LIB), \fBservice_bundle\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBsmf_security\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The present version of \fBsmf\fR(5) does not
support multiple repositories.
