'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH uadmin 2 "28 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/uadmin.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuadmin\fR(\fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfcn\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fImdep\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBuadmin()\fR function provides control for basic administrative functions. This function is tightly coupled to the system administrative procedures and is not intended for general use. The argument \fImdep\fR is provided for machine-dependent use and is
not defined here. It should be initialized to \fINULL\fR if not used.
.LP
As specified by \fIcmd\fR, the following commands are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The system is shut down. All user processes are killed, the buffer cache is flushed, and the root file system is unmounted. The action to be taken after the system has been shut down is specified by \fIfcn\fR. The functions are generic; the hardware capabilities
vary on  specific machines.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_HALT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Halt the processor(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_POWEROFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Halt the processor(s) and turn off the power.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_BOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Reboot the system, using the kernel file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_IBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Interactive reboot; user is prompted for bootable program name.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_REBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The system stops immediately without any further processing. The action to be taken next is specified by \fIfcn\fR as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_DUMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The system is forced to panic immediately without any further processing and a crash dump is written to the dump device (see \fBdumpadm\fR(1M)). 
The action to be taken next is specified by \fIfcn\fR, as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_REMOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The root file system is mounted again after having been fixed. This should be used only during the startup process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_FREEZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Suspend the whole system.  The system state is preserved in the state file. The following subcommands, specified by \fIfcn\fR, are available.  
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_COMPRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Save the system state to the state file with compression of data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_CHECK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Check if your system supports suspend and resume.  Without performing a  system suspend/resume, this command checks if this feature is currently available on your system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAD_FORCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Force \fBAD_COMPRESS\fR even when threads of user applications are not suspendable.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on \fIcmd\fR as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_REBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_FREEZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fB0\fR upon resume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBA_REMOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fB0\fR.
.RE

.LP
Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBuadmin()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Suspend is already in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The \fIcmd\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Suspend/resume ran out of physical memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Suspend/resume could not allocate enough space on the root file system to store system information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Suspend/resume is not supported on this platform or the command specified by \fIcmd\fR is not allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Unable to successfully suspend system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdumpadm\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBuadmin\fR(1M), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
