'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH getusershell 3C "19 Sep 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getusershell, setusershell, endusershell \- get legal user shells
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBgetusershell\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetusershell\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendusershell\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetusershell()\fR function returns a pointer to a legal user shell as defined by the system manager in the file \fB/etc/shells\fR. If \fB/etc/shells\fR does not exist, the following locations of the standard system shells are used in its place:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB/bin/bash\fR                  \fB/bin/csh\fR
\fB/bin/jsh\fR                   \fB/bin/ksh\fR
\fB/bin/pfcsh\fR                 \fB/bin/pfksh\fR
\fB/bin/pfsh\fR                  \fB/bin/sh\fR
\fB/bin/tcsh\fR                  \fB/bin/zsh\fR
\fB/sbin/jsh\fR                  \fB/sbin/pfsh\fR
\fB/sbin/sh\fR                   \fB/usr/bin/bash\fR
\fB/usr/bin/csh\fR               \fB/usr/bin/jsh\fR
\fB/usr/bin/ksh\fR               \fB/usr/bin/pfcsh\fR
\fB/usr/bin/pfksh\fR             \fB/usr/bin/pfsh\fR
\fB/usr/bin/sh\fR                \fB/usr/bin/tcsh\fR
\fB/usr/bin/zsh\fR               \fB/usr/sfw/bin/zsh\fR
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/sh\fR
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The \fBgetusershell()\fR function opens the file \fB/etc/shells\fR, if it exists, and returns the next entry in the list of shells.
.LP
The \fBsetusershell()\fR function rewinds the file or the list.
.LP
The \fBendusershell()\fR function closes the file, frees any memory used by \fBgetusershell()\fR and \fBsetusershell()\fR, and rewinds the file \fB/etc/shells\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
The \fBgetusershell()\fR function returns a null pointer on EOF.
.SH BUGS
.LP
All information is contained in memory that may be freed with a call to \fBendusershell()\fR, so it must be copied if it is to be saved.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Restricted shells should not be listed in \fB/etc/shells\fR.
