'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH insque 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
insque, remque \- insert/remove element from a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
include <search.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBinsque\fR(\fBstruct qelem *\fR\fIelem\fR, \fBstruct qelem *\fR\fIpred\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBremque\fR(\fBstruct qelem *\fR\fIelem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBinsque()\fR and \fBremque()\fR functions manipulate queues built from doubly linked lists.  Each element in the queue must be in the following
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct qelem {
       struct qelem   *q_forw;
       struct qelem   *q_back;
       char           q_data[\|];
};
.fi
.in -2

.LP
The \fBinsque()\fR function inserts \fIelem\fR in a queue immediately after \fIpred\fR.  The \fBremque()\fR function removes an entry \fIelem\fR from a queue.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
