'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH port_associate 3C "1 Mar 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
port_associate, port_dissociate \- associate or dissociate the object with the port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <port.h>

\fBint\fR \fBport_associate\fR(\fBint\fR \fIport\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsource\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fIobject\fR,
    \fBint\fR \fIevents\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIuser\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBport_dissociate\fR(\fBint\fR \fIport\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsource\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fIobject\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBport_associate()\fR function associates specific \fIevents\fR of a given \fIobject\fR with a \fIport\fR.  Only objects associated with a particular port are able to generate events that can be retrieved using \fBport_get\fR(3C) or \fBport_getn\fR(3C).
The delivery event has its \fBportev_user\fR member set to the value specified in the \fIuser\fR parameter. If the specified object is already associated with the specified port, the \fBport_associate()\fR function serves to update the \fIevents\fR and \fIuser\fR arguments of the association.  The \fBport_dissociate()\fR function removes the association of an object with a port.
.LP
The only objects associated with a port by way of the \fBport_associate()\fR function are objects of type \fBPORT_SOURCE_FD\fR. Objects of other types have type-specific association mechanisms. See \fBport_create\fR(3C) for details.
.LP
Objects of type \fBPORT_SOURCE_FD\fR are file descriptors. The event types for \fBPORT_SOURCE_FD\fR objects are described in \fBpoll\fR(2).
At most one event notification will be generated per associated file descriptor.  For example, if a file descriptor is associated with a port for the \fBPOLLRDNORM\fR event and data is available on the file descriptor at the time the \fBport_associate()\fR function is
called, an event is immediately sent to the port. If data is not yet available, one event is sent to the port when data first becomes available.
.LP
When an event for a \fBPORT_SOURCE_FD\fR object is retrieved, the object no longer has an association with the port.  The event can be processed without the possibility that another thread can retrieve a subsequent event for the same object.  After processing of the file descriptor
is completed, the \fBport_associate()\fR function can be called to reassociate the object with the port.
.LP
The parent and child processes are allowed to retrieve events from file descriptors shared after a call to \fBfork\fR(2). The process performing the first association
with a port (parent or child process) is designated as the owner of the association. Only the owner of an association is allowed to dissociate the file descriptor from a port. The association is removed if the owner of the association closes the port .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon succesful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBport_associate()\fR and \fBport_dissociate()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIport\fR identifier is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADFD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIsource\fR argument is of type \fBPORT_SOURCE_FD\fR and the object argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIsource\fR argument is not valid.
.RE

.LP
The \fBport_associate()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The maximum number of objects associated with the port was exceeded. The maximum allowable number of events or association of objects per port is the minimum value of the \fBprocess.max-port-events\fR resource control at the time \fBport_create\fR(3C) was used to create the port. See \fBsetrctl\fR(2) and \fBrctladm\fR(1M) for information on using resource controls.
.sp
The number of objects associated with a port is composed of all supported resource types. Some of the source types do not explicitly use the \fBport_associate()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The physical memory limits of the system have been exceeded.
.RE

.LP
The \fBport_dissociate()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The process is not the owner of the association.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The specified object is not associated with the port.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRetrieve data from a pipe file descriptor.
.LP
The following example retrieves data from a pipe file descriptor.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <port.h>

int               port;
int               fd;
int               error;
int               index;
void              *mypointer;
port_event_t      pev;
struct timespec_t timeout;
char              rbuf[STRSIZE];
int               fds[MAXINDEX];

/* create a port */
port = port_create();

for (index = 0; index < MAXINDEX; index++) {
   error = mkfifo(name[index], S_IRWXU | S_IRWXG | S_IRWXO);
   if (error)
           /* handle error code */
   fds[index] = open(name[index], O_RDWR);

   /* associate pipe file descriptor with the port */
   error = port_associate(port, PORT_SOURCE_FD, fds[index],
       POLLIN, mypointer);
}
\&...
timeout.tv_sec = 1;     /* user defined */
timeout.tv_nsec = 0;

/* loop to retrieve data from the list of pipe file descriptors */
for (...) {
   /* retrieve a single event */
   error = port_get(port, &pev, &timeout);
   if (error) {
           /* handle error code */
   }
   fd = pev.portev_object;
   if (read(fd, rbuf, STRSIZE)) {
           /* handle error code */
   }
   if (fd-still-accepting-data) {
           /*
            * re-associate the file descriptor with the port.
            * The re-association is required for the
            * re-activation of the data detection.
            * Internals events and user arguments are set to the
            * new (or the same) values delivered here.
            */
           error = port_associate(port, PORT_SOURCE_FD, fd, POLLIN,
               pev.portev_user);
   } else {
           /*
            * If file descriptor is no longer required,
            * - it can remain disabled but still associated with
            *   the port, or
            * - it can be dissociated from the port.
            */
       }
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRBind AIO transaction to a specific port.
.LP
The following example binds the AIO transaction to a specific port.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <port.h>

int             port;
port_notify_t   pn;
aiocb_t         aiocb;
aiocb_t         *aiocbp;
void            *mypointer;
int             error;
int             my_errno;
int             my_status;
struct timespec_t timeout;
port_event_t    pev;

port = port_create();
\&...
/* fill AIO specific part */
aiocb.aio_fildes = fd;
aiocb.aio_nbytes = BUFSIZE;
aiocb.aio_buf = bufp;
aiocb.aio_offset = 0;

/* port specific part */
pn.portnfy_port = port;
pn.portnfy_user = mypointer;
aiocb.aio_sigevent.sigev_notify = SIGEV_PORT;
aiocb.aio_sigevent.sigev_value.sival_ptr = &pn

/*
* The aio_read() function binds internally the asynchronous I/O
* transaction with the port delivered in port_notify_t.
*/
error = aio_read(&aiocb);

timeout.tv_sec = 1;     /* user defined */
timeout.tv_nsec = 0;

/* retrieve a single event */
error = port_get(port, &pev, &timeout);
if (error) {
       /* handle error code */
}

/*
* pev.portev_object contains a pointer to the aiocb structure
* delivered in port_notify_t (see aio_read()).
*/
aiocbp = pev.portev_object;

/* check error code and return value in
my_errno = aio_error(aiocbp);
\&...
my_status = aio_return(aiocbp);
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr, SUNWhea
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBrctladm\fR(1M), \fBpoll\fR(2), \fBsetrctl\fR(2), \fBport_alert\fR(3C), \fBport_create\fR(3C), \fBport_get\fR(3C), \fBport_send\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
