'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH exec 1 "17 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exec, eval, source \- shell built-in functions to execute other commands 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexec\fR [\fIargument\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBeval\fR [\fIargument\fR]...
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexec\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBeval\fR \fIargument\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsource\fR [\fB-h\fR] \fIname\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*exec\fR [\fIarg\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB*eval\fR [\fIarg\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.LP
The \fBexec\fR command specified by the arguments is executed in place of this shell without creating a new process. Input/output arguments may appear and, if no other arguments are given, cause the shell input/output to be modified.
.LP
The \fIargument\fRs to the \fBeval\fR built-in are read as input to the shell and the resulting command(s) executed.
.SS "csh"
.LP
\fBexec\fR executes \fBcommand\fR in place of the current shell, which terminates.
.LP
\fBeval\fR reads its \fIargument\fRs as input to the shell and executes the resulting command(s). This is usually used to execute commands generated as the result of command or variable substitution.
.LP
\fBsource\fR reads commands from \fIname\fR. \fBsource\fR commands may be nested, but if they are nested too deeply the shell may run out of file descriptors. An error in a sourced file at any level terminates all nested \fBsource\fR commands.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Place commands from the file \fIname\fR on the history list without executing them.
.RE

.SS "ksh"
.LP
With the \fBexec\fR built-in, if \fIarg\fR is given, the command specified by the arguments is executed in place of this shell without creating a new process. Input/output arguments may appear and affect the current process. If no arguments are given the effect of this command is to modify file descriptors as prescribed by the input/output redirection list.  In this case, any file descriptor numbers greater than 2 that are opened with this mechanism are closed
when invoking another program.
.LP
The arguments to \fBeval\fR are read as input to the shell and the resulting command(s) executed.
.LP
On this man page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two * (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fBI/O\fR redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
For \fBksh\fR:
.LP
If \fIcommand\fR is not found, the exit status is \fB127\fR. If \fIcommand\fR is found, but is not an executable utility, the exit status is \fB126\fR. If a redirection error occurs, the shell exits with a value in the range \fB1-125\fR. Otherwise, \fBexec\fR returns a zero exit status.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
