'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH exit 1 "15 Apr 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exit, return, goto \- shell built-in functions to enable the execution of the shell to advance beyond its sequence of steps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexit\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBreturn\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBexit\fR [( \fIexpr\fR )]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBgoto\fR \fIlabel\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*exit\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB*return\fR [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.LP
\fBexit\fR will cause the calling shell or shell script to exit with the exit status specified by \fIn\fR. If \fIn\fR is omitted the exit status
is that of the last command executed (an \fBEOF\fR will also cause the shell to exit.)
.LP
\fBreturn\fR causes a function to exit with the return value specified by \fIn\fR. If \fIn\fR is omitted, the return status is that of the last
command executed.
.SS "csh"
.LP
\fBexit\fR will cause the calling shell or shell script to exit, either with the value of the status variable or with the value specified by the expression \fBexpr\fR.
.LP
The \fBgoto\fR built-in uses a specified \fIlabel\fR as a search string amongst commands. The shell rewinds its input as much as possible and searches for a line
of the form \fIlabel\fR\fB:\fR possibly preceded by space or tab characters. Execution continues after the indicated line. It is an error to jump to a label that occurs
between a \fBwhile\fR or \fBfor\fR built-in command and its corresponding \fBend\fR.
.SS "ksh"
.LP
\fBexit\fR will cause the calling shell or shell script to exit with the exit status specified by \fIn\fR. The value will be the least significant 8 bits of the specified
status. If \fIn\fR is omitted then the exit status is that of the last command executed. When    \fBexit\fR occurs when executing a trap, the last command refers to the
command that executed before the trap was invoked. An end-of-file will also cause the shell to exit except for a shell which has the \fBignoreeof\fR option (See \fBset\fR below)
turned on.
.LP
\fBreturn\fR causes a shell function or \fB'.'\fR script to return to the invoking script with the return status specified by \fIn\fR. The value will
be the least significant 8 bits of the specified status.  If \fIn\fR is omitted then the return status is that of the last command executed.  If \fBreturn\fR is invoked
while not in a function or a \fB'.'\fR script, then it is the same as an \fBexit\fR.
.LP
On this man page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two * (asterisks) are treated
specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fBI/O\fR redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment. This means that tilde substitution
is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBbreak\fR(1), \fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
