'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH, the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the
.\" installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH ssh-add 1 "9 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ssh-add \- add RSA or DSA identities to the authentication agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-add\fR [\fB-lLdDxX\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR] [ \fIfile\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBssh-add\fR utility adds \fBRSA\fR or \fBDSA\fR identities to the authentication agent, \fBssh-agent\fR(1). When
run without arguments, it attempts to add all of the files \fB$HOME/.ssh/identity\fR (RSA v1), \fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa\fR (RSA v2), and \fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa\fR (DSA v2) that exist. If more than one of the private keys exists, an attempt to decrypt each
with the same passphrase will be made before reprompting for a different passphrase. The passphrase is read from the user's tty or by running the program defined in SSH_ASKPASS (see below).
.LP
The authentication agent must be running.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Instead of adding the identity, this option \fIremoves\fR the identity from the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Deletes all identities from the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Lists fingerprints of all identities currently represented by the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Lists public key parameters of all identities currently represented by the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Sets a maximum lifetime when adding identities to an agent. The lifetime may be specified in seconds or in a time format specified in \fBsshd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Locks the agent with a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Unlocks the agent.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDISPLAY\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
If \fBssh-add\fR needs a passphrase, it will read the passphrase from the current terminal if it was run from a terminal. If \fBssh-add\fR does not have a terminal associated with it but DISPLAY and SSH_ASKPASS are set, it
will execute the program specified by SSH_ASKPASS and open an X11 window to read the passphrase. This is particularly useful when calling \fBssh-add\fR from a .Xsession or related script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSSH_AUTH_SOCK\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Identifies the path of a unix-domain socket used to communicate with the agent.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.LP
These files should not be readable by anyone but the user. Notice that \fBssh-add\fR ignores a file if it is accessible by others. It is possible to specify a passphrase when generating the key; that passphrase will be used to encrypt the private part of this file.
.LP
If these files are stored on a network file system it is assumed that either the protection provided in the file themselves or the transport layer of the network file system provides sufficient protection for the site policy. If this is not the case, then it is recommended the key files
are stored on removable media or locally on the relevant hosts.
.LP
Recommended names for the \fBDSA\fR and \fBRSA\fR key files:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/identity\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user for protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/identity.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the public part of the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user for protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the private \fBDSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the public part of the DSA authentication identity of the user. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the private \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Contains the public part of the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsshu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBssh\fR(1), \fBssh-agent\fR(1), \fBssh-keygen\fR(1), \fBsshd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
