'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University
.\" of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution. 
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved 
.TH tcopy 1 "10 Mar 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tcopy \- copy a magnetic tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtcopy\fR \fIsource\fR [\fIdestination\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBtcopy\fR utility copies the magnetic tape mounted
on the tape drive specified by the \fBsource\fR argument. The
only assumption made about the contents of a tape is that there are two
tape marks at the end.
.LP
When only a source drive is specified, \fBtcopy\fR scans
the tape, and displays information about the sizes of records and tape files.
If a destination is specified, \fBtcopy\fR makes a copies the
source tape onto the \fIdestination\fR tape, with blocking
preserved. As it copies, \fBtcopy\fR produces the same output
as it does when only scanning a tape.
.LP
The \fBtcopy\fR utility requires the use of Berkeley-compatible
device names. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBtcopy /dev/rmt/1b /dev/rmt/2b\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmt\fR(1), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
\fBtcopy\fR will only run on systems supporting an associated
set of  \fBioctl\fR(2)
requests.
