'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH trap 1 "23 Oct 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
trap, onintr \- shell built-in functions to respond to (hardware) signals 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtrap\fR [\fIargument\fR \fIn\fR [\fIn2\fR]...]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBonintr\fR [\fB-|\fR \fIlabel\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fB*trap\fR [\fIarg\fR \fIsig\fR [\fIsig2\fR...]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.LP
The \fBtrap\fR command \fIargument\fR is to be read and executed when the shell receives numeric or symbolic signal(s) (\fIn\fR). (Note: \fIargument\fR is scanned once when the trap is set and once when the trap is taken.) Trap commands are executed in order of signal number or corresponding symbolic names. Any attempt to set a trap
on a signal that was ignored on entry to the current shell is ineffective. An attempt to trap on signal 11 (memory fault) produces an error. If \fIargument\fR is absent all trap(s) \fIn\fR are reset to their original values. If \fIargument\fR is the null string this signal is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. If \fIn\fR
is \fB0\fR the command \fIargument\fR is executed on exit from the shell. The \fBtrap\fR command with no arguments prints a list of commands associated with
each signal number.
.SS "csh"
.LP
\fBonintr\fR controls the action of the shell on interrupts. With no arguments, \fBonintr\fR restores the default action of the shell on interrupts. (The shell terminates
shell scripts and returns to the terminal command input level). With the \fB\(mi\fR argument, the shell ignores all interrupts. With a \fIlabel\fR argument, the shell
executes a \fBgoto\fR\fI label\fR when an interrupt is received or a child process terminates because it was interrupted.
.SS "ksh"
.LP
\fBtrap\fR uses \fIarg\fR as a command to be read and executed when the shell receives signal(s) \fIsig\fR. (Note that \fIarg\fR
is scanned once when the trap is set and once when the trap is taken.) Each \fIsig\fR can be given as a number or as the name of the signal. \fBtrap\fR commands are executed
in order of signal number. Any attempt to set a trap on a signal that was ignored on entry to the current shell is ineffective.  If \fIarg\fR is omitted or is \fB\(mi\fR,
then the trap(s) for each \fIsig\fR are reset to their original values.  If \fIarg\fR is the null (the empty string, e.g., "" ) string then this signal is ignored
by the shell and by the commands it invokes.  If \fIsig\fR is \fBERR\fR then \fIarg\fR will be executed whenever a command has
a non-zero exit status.  If \fIsig\fR is \fBDEBUG\fR then \fIarg\fR will be executed after each command. If \fIsig\fR is \fB0\fR or \fBEXIT\fR for a \fBtrap\fR set outside any function then the command \fIarg\fR is executed
on exit from the shell.  The \fBtrap\fR command with no arguments prints a list of commands associated with each signal number.
.LP
On this man page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two * (asterisks) are treated
specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment. This means that tilde substitution
is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBexit\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
