'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH rpld.conf 4 "03 Dec 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
rpld.conf \- Remote Program Load (RPL)
server configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/rpld.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The  \fB/etc/rpld.conf\fR file contains the
configuration information for operation of  \fBrpld\fR, the RPL-based
network boot server.  It is a text file containing keyword-value pairs and
comment. 
.LP
The keyword-value pairs specify the value to use for parameters used
by the RPL server.  Comments can be entered by starting the line using the
# character.  The user can add comments to the file for customized configurations.
.LP
Alternate RPL server configuration files can be specified when running
the RPL server by supplying a configuration file similar to the default configuration
file.
.SS "Keywords"
.LP
All keywords are case-sensitive.  Not all keywords must be present.
(However, note that the \fBend\fR keyword at the end of the file
must be present.) If a keyword is not present, internal defaults, which are
the default values described here, will be used. Keyword-value pairs are specified
by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
keyword = value
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDebugLevel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Specify the number of error, warning, and information messages to be
generated while the RPL server is running.  The valid range is 0-9.  A value
of 0 means no message at all, while a value of 9 will generate the most messages.
The default is 0. Note that it is best to limit the value to 8 or below;
use of level 9 may generate so many debug messages that the performance of
the RPL server may be impacted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDebugDest\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A numeric
value specifying where to send the messages to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0 = standard output
1 = syslogd
2 = log file
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The default is 2.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMaxClients\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A
numeric value specifying the maximum number of simultaneous network boot clients
to be in service.  A value of \(mi1 means unlimited except where system
resources is the limiting factor.  Any positive value will set a limit on
the number of clients to be in service at the same time unless system resource
constraints come in before the limit.  The default is \(mi1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBackGround\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A
numeric value indicating whether the RPL server should run in the background
or not. A 0 means run in the background and a 1 means do not run in the background.
The difference is whether the server will relinquish the controlling terminal
or not. The default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFrameSize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The
default size of data frames to be used to send bootfile data to the network
boot clients.  This size should not exceed the limits imposed by the underlying
physical media. For  \fBethernet/802.3\fR, the maximum physical
frame size is 1500 octets.  The default is 1500. Note that the protocol overhead
of LLC1 and RPL is 32 octets, resulting in a maximum data length of 1468 octets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLogFile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The log
file to which messages will be sent if \fBDebugDest\fR is set
to 2 (the default).  The default file is  \fBvar/spool/rpld.log\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBStartDelay\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The
initial delay factor to use to control the speed of downloading.  In the default
mode of operation, the downloading process does not wait for a positive acknowledgment
from the client before the next data frame is sent.  In the case of a fast
server and slow client, data overrun can result and requests for retransmission
will be frequent.  By using a delay factor, the speed of data transfer is
controlled to avoid retransmission requests.  Note that the unit of delay
is machine dependent and bears no correlation with the actual time delayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDelayGran\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Delay
granularity.  If the initial delay factor is not suitable and the rate of
downloading is either too fast or too slow, retransmission requests from the
clients will be used to adjust the delay factor either upward (to slow down
the data rate) or downward (to speed up the data rate).  The delay granularity
is used as the delay delta for adjustment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBend\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Keyword at
the end of the file.  It must be present.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rpld.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/sbin/rpld\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBrpld\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
