'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH audit_binfile 5 "20 May 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
audit_binfile \- generation of Solaris audit logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/security/audit_binfile.so\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBaudit_binfile\fR plugin module for Solaris audit, \fB/usr/lib/security/audit_binfile.so\fR, writes binary audit data to files as configured in \fBaudit_control\fR(4); it is the default plugin for the Solaris audit daemon \fBauditd\fR(1M). Its output is described by \fBaudit.log\fR(4).
.LP
The \fBaudit_binfile\fR plugin is loaded by \fBauditd\fR if \fBaudit_control\fR contains one or more lines defining audit directories by means of the \fBdir:\fR specification or if \fBaudit_control\fR has a \fBplugin:\fR
specification of \fBname=audit_binfile.so\fR.
.SH OBJECT ATTRIBUTES
.LP
The \fBp_dir\fR and \fBp_minfree\fR attributes are equivalent to the \fBdir:\fR and \fBminfree:\fR lines described in \fBaudit_control\fR. If both the \fBdir:\fR line and the \fBp_dir\fR attribute are used,
the plugin combines all directories into a single list with those specified by means of \fBdir:\fR at the front of the list. If both the \fBminfree\fR and the \fBp_minfree\fR attributes are given, the \fBp_minfree\fR value is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following directives cause \fBaudit_binfile.so\fR to be loaded, specify the directories for writing audit logs, and specify the percentage of required free space per directory.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
flags: lo,ad,-fm
naflags: lo,ad
plugin: name=audit_binfile.so;\e
p_minfree=20;\e
p_dir=/etc/security/jedgar/eggplant,\e
/etc/security/jedgar.aux/eggplant,\e
/etc/security/global/eggplant
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
_
MT LevelMT-Safe
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBauditd\fR(1M), \fBaudit_control\fR(4), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
