'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH ippool 1M "21 Oct 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ippool \- user
interface to the IP Filter pools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-a\fR [\fB-dnv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR] \fB-i\fR \fIipaddr\fR 
    [/\fInetmask\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-A\fR [\fB-dnv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIseed\fR] 
    [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR [\fB-dnuv\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-F\fR [\fB-dv\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-h\fR [\fB-dv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-l\fR [\fB-dv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-r\fR [\fB-dnv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR] \fB-i\fR \fIipaddr\fR 
    [/\fInetmask\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-R\fR [\fB-dnv\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBippool\fR \fB-s\fR [\fB-dtv\fR] [\fB-M\fR \fIcore\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fInamelist\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBippool\fR utility is used to manage information stored in the IP pools subsystem of IP Filter software. Configuration file information can be parsed and loaded into the kernel and currently configured pools can be removed, changed, or inspected.
.LP
\fBippool\fR's use is restricted through access to \fB/dev/ippool\fR. The default permissions of \fB/dev/ippool\fR require \fBippool\fR to be run as root for all operations.
.LP
The command line options used are divided into two sections: the global options and the instance-specific options.
.LP
\fBippool\fR's use is restricted through access to \fB/dev/ipauth\fR, \fB/dev/ipl\fR, and \fB/dev/ipstate\fR. The default permissions of these files require \fBippool\fR to be run as root for all operations.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
\fBippool\fR supports the option categories described below.
.SS "Global Options"
.LP
The following global options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Toggle debugging of processing the configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Prevents \fBippool\fR from doing anything, such as making ioctl calls, that would alter the currently running kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Turn verbose mode on.
.RE

.SS "Instance-Specific Options"
.LP
The following instance-specific options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Add a new data node to an existing pool in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Add a new (empty) pool to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Read in IP pool configuration information from \fIfile\fR and load it into the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Flush loaded pools from the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Display a list of pools of the type: hash loaded in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Display a list of pools of the type: tree loaded in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Remove an existing data node from a pool in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Remove an existing pool from within the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Display IP pool statistical information.
.RE

.SS "Other Options"
.LP
The following, additional options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIipaddr\fR[/\fInetmask\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Sets the IP address for the operation being undertaken with an all-one's mask or, optionally, a specific netmask, given in either dotted-quad notation or as a
single integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIpoolname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Sets the pool name for the current operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fIcore\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specify an alternative path to \fB/dev/kmem\fR from which to retrieve statistical information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fInamelist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specify an alternative path to lookup symbol name information when retrieving statistical information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIrole\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Sets the role with which this pool is to be used. Currently only \fBipf\fR, \fBauth\fR, and \fBcount\fR are accepted as arguments to this option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIseed\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Sets the hashing seed to the number specified. For use with hash-type pools only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Sets the type of pool being defined. Must be one of \fBpool\fR, \fBhash\fR, or \fBgroup-map\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
When parsing a configuration file, rather than load new pool data into the kernel, unload it.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/ippool\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Link to IP Filter pseudo device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/kmem\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Special file that provides access to virtual address space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ipf/ippool.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Location of \fBippool\fR startup configuration file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWipfu
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBipf\fR(1M), \fBipfstat\fR(1M), \fBippool\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter, the default path is \fB/usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE\fR. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the installed location.
