'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH uadmin 1M "11 Apr 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/uadmin\fR \fIcmd\fR \fIfcn\fR [\fImdep\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/uadmin\fR \fIcmd\fR \fIfcn\fR [\fImdep\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBuadmin\fR command provides control for
basic administrative functions. This command is tightly coupled to the system administration procedures and is not intended for general use. It may be invoked only by the super-user.
.LP
Both the \fIcmd\fR (command) and \fIfcn\fR (function) arguments are converted to integers and passed to the \fBuadmin\fR system call. The optional \fImdep\fR (machine dependent) argument is only available for the \fIcmd\fR values of \fB1\fR (\fBA_REBOOT\fR), \fB2\fR (\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR), or \fB5\fR (\fBA_DUMP\fR). For any other \fIcmd\fR value, no \fImdep\fR command-line argument is allowed.
.LP
When passing an \fImdep\fR value that contains whitespaces, the string must be grouped together as a single argument enclosed within quotes, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uadmin 1 1 "\fB-s\fR kernel/unix"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsu
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBuadmin\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
On x86 systems, shutting down the system by means of \fBuadmin\fR does not update the boot archive. Avoid using this command after manual editing of files such as \fB/etc/system\fR or \fBdriver.conf\fR(4).
