'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.TH lofi 7D "30 Jul 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
lofi \- Loopback file driver 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlofi\fR file driver exports
a file as a block device. Reads and writes to the block device are translated
to reads and writes on the underlying file. This is useful when the file contains
a file system image. Exporting it as a block device through the  \fBlofi\fR file driver allows normal system utilities to operate on the
image through the block device (like \fBfstyp\fR(1M)\fBfsck\fR(1M), and \fBmount\fR(1M). This
is useful for accessing CD-ROM and \fBFAT\fR floppy images. See \fBlofiadm\fR(1M) for
examples.   
.LP
File block device entries are contained in\fB /dev/lofi\fR,
while \fB/dev/rlofi\fR contains the character (or raw) device
entries. Entries are in the form of  decimal numbers which are assigned through \fBlofiadm\fR(1M). When
created, these device entries are owned by \fBroot\fR, in group \fBsys\fR, and have permissions \fB0600\fR. While ownership,
group, and permission settings can be altered, there are possible ramifications.
See \fBlofiadm\fR(1M) for
more information.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/lofictl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Master control device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/lofi/\fIn\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Block device for file \fIn\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/rlofi/\fIn\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Character device for file \fIn\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/lofi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
32-bit driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/lofi.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Driver configuration file. (Should not be altered.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/lofi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
64-bit driver
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See  \fBattributes\fR(5)
for descriptions of the following attributes: 
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWcsr, SUNWcarx.u
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlofiadm\fR(1M), \fBfsck\fR(1M), \fBfstyp\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBnewfs\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlofs\fR(7FS)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Just as you would not directly access a disk device that has mounted
file systems, you should not access a file associated with a block device
except through the \fBlofi\fR file driver.
.LP
For compatability purposes, a raw device is also exported along with
the block device. For example, \fBnewfs\fR(1M)
requires one. 
